abandon oneself to something	to yield to the comforts or delights of something	The children ABANDONED themselves TO the delights of the warm summer day.
abandon something/somebody to something/somebody	to leave a person, living creature, or thing to the care of someone or something; to give up someone or something to someone or something (usually with the thought that the abandoned person or thing will not receive the best of care)	They had to ABANDON the dogs TO the storm.
abbreviate something to something; to abbreviate something as something	to make something into a shorter version of itself	The act has been ABBREVIATED TO just a few minutes.
abbreviate something to something; to abbreviate something as something	to make specific initials or an acronym out of a word or phrase	The phrase was abbreviated to ABC.
abduct somebody from something/somebody	to take away or kidnap a person from someone or from a particular place, usually in secret	The thugs abducted the child from her mother.
abet somebody in something	to help someone in some deed; to help someone do something illegal	Surely you do not expect me to abet you in this crime!
abide by something	to accept or obey an arrangement, decision, or rule	It is a good thing that most drivers abide by the rules of the road.
abide by something	to follow the rules of something; to obey someone's orders	John felt that he had to abide by his father's wishes.
abide by something	to remain with someone; to stay with someone (old and stilted; primarily heard in the church hymn Eventide)	You are welcome to abide with me for a while, young man.
abide by something	to respect or obey (the law, a decision, a rule)	If you want to stay at this school, you must abide by the rules.
abound in something	to be rich and abundant in something; to have plenty of something (A bit formal)	The entire area abounds in game and fish.
abound with something/somebody	to be plentiful with particular persons, other living beings, or objects	The world abounds with talented people who are too shy to develop their talents.
abscond with something/somebody	to steal or run away with someone or something; to make off with someone or something in secret	The boys absconded with all the dessert.
absent oneself from something/somebody	to remain away from or avoid someone or some place	Fred absented himself from the meeting, which he was certain would be boring.
absolve somebody from something	to prove that an accused person is innocent of something; to demonstrate that someone is not responsible for something	Bob attempted to absolve himself of the crime.
absorb something with something	to soak up a fluid with something	Henry absorbed the spilled milk with a sponge.
absorb something/somebody in(to) something	[for someone] to become very interested or preoccupied with something or someone else's interests	Tom would often absorb himself in his children's activities on weekends.
absorb something/somebody in(to) something	[of a person or a group of people] to include someone in all the activities of the group; to integrate someone into something	The club absorbed the new members into the organization.
absorb something/somebody in(to) something	[of matter or substance] to draw something into itself	The sponge absorbed all the moisture into its fibers.
abstain from something	to avoid some activity or the use of some substance, such as alcohol, drugs, sex, or food	They abstained from hard liquor and any other kind of intoxicants. I will have to abstain from voting since I cannot make up my mind.
abstain from voting	to choose not to vote either for or against a proposition or nominee	I will have to abstain from voting since I cannot make up my mind.
abstract something from something/somebody	to steal something from someone or something (Formal)	The officer was found guilty of abstracting a rather large amount of money from the company.
abstract something from something/somebody	to take the important information from a longer document; to extract the essentials or the gist from a piece of complicated writing	Can you abstract a shorter article from this material?
abut (up) against something	to rest firmly against something solid	The end of the board abutted against the foundation.
abut on something	[particularly of the edge of an area of land] to meet or touch something along one boundary or at one point	Our land abuts on the shopping center's parking lot.
accede to something	to agree to the terms or demands that someone has stated	We cannot accede to your demands.
accede to something	to assume a position of power or authority; to begin serving in one's official capacity	She acceded to the office of mayor in January.
accept something/somebody as something	to agree that something will serve in payment of a debt or in return for something	This receipt shows that we have accepted your money as payment on your debt. This money has been accepted as reimbursement for the expenditure.
accept something/somebody as something	to believe that something is true or not	You shouldn't accept as gospel everything you read in the newspapers. I accept your evaluation as valid.
accept something/somebody as something	to consent to receive or consider someone as a particular type of person or a person who can serve a particular role	Sally finally accepted herself as the only possible peacemaker in the dispute.
accept something/somebody as something	to resign [oneself] to something that cannot be changed	I must accept what you say as the final decision.
access to something/somebody	permission to approach someone or something; the right to use someone or something (Typically: get ~; have ~; give someone ~)	Can you get access to a computer?
acclimate somebody (or an animal) to something	to cause a person or other living thing to become used to a different climate or environment	We will help acclimate Henry to the new building. We need to acclimatize the fish to the new aquarium.
accommodate oneself to something	to adapt oneself to something, such as someone else's needs or a new environment	Please try to accommodate yourself to our routine.
accommodate something/somebody (with something)	to provide somebody with a room or place to sleep, live or sit	The hotel can accommodate up to 500 guests. The aircraft is capable of accommodating 28 passengers.
accommodate something/somebody (with something)	to provide enough space for somebody/something	Over 70 minutes of music can be accommodated on one CD. The old town hall now accommodates a Folk Museum.
accommodate something/somebody (with something)	to consider something, such as somebody's opinion or a fact, and be influenced by it when you are deciding what to do or explaining something	Our proposal tries to accommodate the special needs of minority groups. She modified her views so as to accommodate the objections of American feminists.
accommodate something/somebody (with something)	to provide something special for someone; to do something that provides for someone's needs or desires	We will try to accommodate you with an earlier flight.
accommodate something/somebody (with something)	to help somebody by doing what they want	I have accommodated the press a great deal, giving numerous interviews. I'm sure the bank will be able to accommodate you.
accompany something/somebody (at/on/with something)	to travel or go somewhere with somebody	His wife accompanied him on the trip. I must ask you to accompany me to the police station. Warships will accompany the convoy.
accompany something/somebody (at/on/with something)	to happen or appear with something else	Each pack contains a book and accompanying CD. Shouts of protest accompanied this announcement. The text is accompanied by a series of stunning photographs.
accompany something/somebody (at/on/with something)	to provide complementary instrumental music for someone's musical performance	Sally accompanied the singer on the piano. The singer was accompanied on the piano by her sister.
accompany something/somebody (at/on/with something)	[for someone] to go with someone on a trip, journey, adventure, etc.	Would you please accompany me on my next trip?
accompany something/somebody (at/on/with something)	[for something] to be brought with someone on a trip, journey, etc.	My cameras always accompany me on my travels.
accompany something/somebody (at/on/with something)	to use a particular musical instrument to play music that goes along with someone else's musical performance	She accompanied Mary with her flute.
accord with something	to agree with or match up with something; to jibe with something	Does this accord with what you heard?
account for something/somebody	to explain something; to give a reason	Your explanation accounts for everything that has happened. I hope you can account for the money you spent. How do you account for the increase in production costs? They had to ACCOUNT FOR all the money that had gone missing.
account for something/somebody	to explain the reason for something	More police on the streets accounted for less street crime.
account for something/somebody	to form the total of an amount of something	In Florida, people over 60 account for more than 25 percent of the population.
account for something/somebody	to know the state of or whereabouts of someone or something (usually in reference to some person or thing placed in one's charge)	They cannot account for three of the passengers. We must account for all the information in our report.
account for something/somebody	to use something to produce good results	She turned her natural curiosity to good account by becoming a detective.
accredit something to somebody (somebody with something)	to assign or attribute a deed to someone; to assign or attribute praise to someone (Often passive)	We can accredit this great success to Fred and his committee.
accredit something to somebody (somebody with something)	to believe that somebody is responsible for doing or saying something	The Arabs are usually accredited with the discovery of distillation. The discovery of distillation is usually accredited to the Arabs of the 11th century. She is accredited with having first introduced the word into the language.
accredit somebody to	to choose somebody for an official position, especially as an ambassador	He was accredited to Madrid.
accredit something/somebody	to officially approve something/somebody as being of an accepted quality or standard	Institutions that do not meet the standards will not be accredited for teacher training.
accrue to something/somebody	[used of interest paid on money] to be credited to an account or to a person's account	Interest will accrue to your account as long as the account is active.
accrue something	to allow a sum of money or debts to grow over a period of time	The firm had accrued debts of over $6m.
accuse somebody of something	to charge someone with a crime, a violation of rules or instructions, or doing something wrong	Please don't accuse me of forgetting to lock the door. He was accused of lying. She accused him of lying. The teacher accused Michael of cheating on the test. The government was accused of incompetence.
accustom somebody to something/somebody	to make yourself/somebody familiar with something or become used to it	It took him a while to accustom himself to the idea. She quickly accustomed herself to the darkness. Education should accustom children to thinking for themselves.
accustom somebody to something/somebody	to get someone used to someone or something	I think we can accustom Fred to the new rules without difficulty.
accustom somebody to something/somebody	used to or in the habit of doing something (be ~; become ~; grow ~)	The children are accustomed to eating late in the evening.
ace in(to something)	to be lucky in getting admitted to something	I aced into the history class at the last minute.
ace out (of something)	to be fortunate or lucky	Freddy aced out at the dentist's office with only one cavity.
ace out (of something)	to get out of something through luck; to evade or avoid something narrowly	I just aced out of having to take the math test!
ace somebody out	to maneuver someone out; to win out over someone	Martha aced out Rebecca to win the first place trophy.
ache from something	to feel a continuous dull pain	Her eyes ached from lack of sleep. I'm aching all over. It makes my heart ache (= it makes me sad) to see her suffer.
ache to do something	to have a strong desire for somebody/something or to do something	He ached to see her.
ache for something/somebody; to hurt for something/somebody	to desire someone or something very much (so much that it "hurts")	My partner's been away for a fortnight. I am ACHING FOR her. Jim ached for the sight of Mary, whom he loved deeply.
ache for something/somebody; to hurt for something/somebody	to feel desire or regret about someone or something	I ache for home, the smell of bread baking, rain hitting the porch roof - even the smell of the hen house. We ache for the victims of war who have lost family, friends, and their homes.
acknowledge something/somebody as something	to agree or announce publicly that a person holds a particular office or station, or that a person has particular qualities	She found it difficult to acknowledge herself as a failure.
acknowledge something/somebody as something	to agree or announce publicly that something is as previously stated	The president acknowledged the statement as the truth.
acknowledge something/somebody to be, have, etc. something	to accept that somebody/something has a particular authority or status	He is widely acknowledged to be the best player in the world. Bill said that the car was useless, and the mechanic acknowledged him to be right.
acquaint somebody with something; to be acquainted with something/somebody	familiar with something; able to understand or recognize something (be ~; become ~; get ~)	Tom is fully acquainted with the way we do things.
acquaint somebody with something; to be acquainted with something/somebody	having been introduced to someone (be ~; become ~; get ~)	We are only acquainted with each other. We are certainly not what you would call close friends.
acquaint somebody with something; to be acquainted with something/somebody	to introduce someone to an unfamiliar thing; to become familiar with something; to get to know something; to tell someone the facts (about someone or something)	It took a month for the new attorney to acquaint herself with the facts in the case.
acquiesce to something/somebody	to accept something without arguing, even if you do not really agree with it; to give in to someone or someone's wishes; to agree, perhaps reluctantly, to someone's ideas or requests	We are willing to acquiesce to your demands. Senior government figures must have acquiesced in the cover-up. She explained her plan and reluctantly he acquiesced.
acquit somebody (of something)	to decide and state officially in court that somebody is not guilty of a crime; to establish someone's innocence of a criminal charge or the blame for some wrongdoing	The jury acquitted him of murder. Both defendants were acquitted. She was acquitted on all charges. He was acquitted on the grounds of insufficient evidence. The investigator acquitted Wally of the charges.
act (up)on something	to perform on something, usually the stage (in a theater)	Ken has never acted on the stage or in front of a camera.
act (up)on something	to take action because of some special information	The police refused to act upon his complaint because he was an ex-convict.
act (up)on something	to take action on a particular problem (upon is more formal and less commonly used than on)	I will act on this immediately.
act (up)on something	to have an effect on (illness, a part of the body, etc.)	Even though placebos don't act on the illness, they seem to have an effect in about 1 out of 3 patients.
act (up)on something	to regulate one's behaviour in accordance with (advice, information, etc.)	The military planned to act on the information they received. The police were ACTING ON a tip from an informer and caught the gang red-handed.
act out	to behave badly (usually used to describe young people)	Your son has been acting out in the classroom, and his teacher feels that professional intervention is desirable.
act out	to express an emotion in someone's behaviour	Their anger is ACTED OUT in their antisocial behaviour.
act out	to perform something with actions and gestures	They ACTED OUT the story on stage.
act out	to react negatively to something	Teenagers often act out to express their feelings.
act something out	to convert one's bad feelings into action rather than words	Don't act your aggressions out on me! She acted out her aggression.
act something out	to demonstrate or communicate something through gestures or action rather than words	Act your request out, if you can't say it. She had a sore throat and had to act out her request.
act something out	to perform in real life a role that one has imagined in a fantasy	When I was onstage, I was really acting an old fantasy out. I acted out an old fantasy onstage.
act up	to become active (usually used to refer to a medical condition)	Her allergies acted up when she went hiking in the woods.
act up	to behave badly (usually used to refer to children)	Sometimes kids act up because they just want attention.
act up	to behave badly or strangely	My computer began acting up and I lost a whole day's work. My computer's ACTING UP. I think I might have a virus. Facebook is acting up again.
adapt something for something	to change or alter something for use with something else	Has this furnace been adapted for natural gas?
adapt something from something	to derive something from something else; to create by modifying something else	I adapted my new musical from a novel.
adapt something to something	to convert something to fit or work with something else	We converted our furnace to natural gas.
adapt something/somebody to something	to cause someone or something to change, adjust to, or get used to something else	Can't you adapt yourself to my way of doing things?
adapt to something	to adapt or get used to someone or something	Please try to adapt to our routine. We have adapted to living in the U.S.
add something in	to include something with something else	Remember to add in the cost of drinks.
add something on (to something)	to include or attach something extra	A service charge of 15% was added on to the bill.
add something on (to something)	to include in a calculation	You have to ADD the VAT ON to the price they give.
add something to something	to increase something in size, number, amount, etc.	The bad weather only added to our difficulties. The house has been added to (= new rooms, etc. have been built on to it) from time to time.
add something to something	to increase the intensity or amount of something by giving more (of something) to it	You added too much sugar to my coffee.
add something in(to) something	to introduce something into something else	Now, add the eggs into the mixture. Add in some more eggs.
add something together	to sum or total two or more things	Add these two together and tell me what you get.
add something up	to sum or total a set of figures	Please add these figures up again. I didn't add up these figures!
add up	to make sense; seem reasonable; be a satisfactory explanantion for something (usually used with not)	She explained why the work wasn't ready, but her story doesn't ADD UP.
add up	to increase in expense	With five kids in the family, our medical bills really add up.
add up	to make a mathematical total; to equal a total	We ADDED UP the bill to check it was correct. These figures don't add up to the right total!
add up to something	to have a certain result	Trains delays are getting worse and with the high fares, it all ADDS UP TO misery for the commuters. The details don't add up to a complete picture of what caused the explosion.
add up to something	To equal an amount	Our monthly expenses added up to $500. Your purchases add up to $205.32.
address something to somebody	to say something directly to a specific person or group of persons	George addressed his remarks to everyone.
address oneself to something/somebody	to speak directly to a particular person, rather than someone else	I did not address myself to you!
address oneself to something/somebody	to turn one's complete attention to something, such as a problem or an issue (See also address something to someone)	Please address yourself to these current, pressing problems.
address somebody as	to talk to or write to a person, using a particular title	They addressed Abraham Lincoln as "Mr. President."
address somebody as	to treat a person you are talking with in a particular manner	You should address him as your equal.
address something to somebody	to write someone's name and address on an envelope, package, letter, etc.	Gilbert addressed the envelope to Walter.
adhere to something	to behave in a way demanded by an idea or rule	Housing groups that do not adhere to the new fire regulations may lose government money. He followed no specific religion, but adhered to the basic beliefs of Christianity.
adhere to something	to follow or "stick to" a particular course of action, plan, or set of beliefs	If you don't adhere to the proper routine, you will confuse the other workers. For ten months he adhered to a strict no-fat low-salt diet. She adheres to teaching methods she learned over 30 years ago. Staff should adhere strictly to the safety guidelines. The diet will work if it is adhered to.
adhere to something	to stick firmly to something	The stamp won't adhere to the envelope. Once in the bloodstream, the bacteria adhere to the surface of the red cells. Clean the surface first, or the paint will not adhere. There was oil adhering to the bird's feathers.
adjourn for	a time to bring a meeting to a temporary close so the participants can take part in some other activity	We must adjourn for the day.
adjourn to somewhere	to bring a meeting to a temporary close so the participants can move to another place (where the meeting will be started again)	We adjourned to the sitting room.
adjourn to somewhere	to go to another place, especially in order to relax	I suggest we adjourn to the bar for a drink.
adjust oneself to something/somebody	to make changes in one's opinion or attitude toward someone or something, such as a change in one's life or environment	Can't you adjust yourself to your new office? I adjusted to living in the U.S.
adjust something to something	to make something fit something else; to alter something to make it suitable for something else	 The builder adjusted the plans for the new house to the requirements of the fire marshal. Adjust your language to the age of your audience.
administer something to somebody	to present or apply something to a person or an animal	The vet administered the drug to the cow.
administer something to somebody	to give or to provide something, especially in a formal way	A taxi driver administered first aid to the victims.
admire somebody for something	to have a positive feeling toward someone because of something	I really admire you for your courage. The school is widely admired for its excellent teaching. I don't agree with her, but I admire her for sticking to her principles.
admire to do something	to want to do something, to be happy to do something	He asked her to the dance. She said she would admire to go with him.
admit somebody (in)to somewhere	to allow someone to enter some place	They refused to admit us into the theater.
admit something into something	to allow something to be introduced into something else	You cannot admit this document into the body of evidence!
admit something to somebody	to confess something to someone	Harry admitted his error to his uncle.
admit to something	to acknowledge or confess something; to acknowledge or confess to having done something	Max would not admit to anything.
admonish somebody for something	to warn or scold someone mildly for doing something	The nurse admonished the patient for not eating her dinner. She was admonished for chewing gum in class.
admonish somebody to do something	to strongly advise somebody to do something	A warning voice admonished him not to let this happen.
adopt somebody as something	to choose someone as something	The committee will adopt Jane as its candidate.
adopt something as something	to take on something, such as a policy or principle, as one's own	I will adopt this policy as my own. She was adopted as parliamentary candidate for Wood Green.
adopt something/somebody	to take somebody else's child into your family and become its legal parent(s)	She was forced to have her baby adopted.
adopt something/somebody	to start to use a particular method or to show a particular attitude towards somebody/something	All three teams adopted different approaches to the problem.
adopt something/somebody	to formally accept a suggestion or policy by voting	The council is expected to adopt the new policy at its next meeting.
adopt something/somebody	to choose a new name, a country, a custom, etc. and begin to use it as your own	Early Christians in Europe adopted many of the practices of the older, pagan religions.
adopt something/somebody	to use a particular manner, way of speaking, expression, etc	He adopted an air of indifference.
adore somebody for something	to be in awe of someone for doing something well	Everyone adores Sally for her wonderful sense of humor.
adore somebody for something	to be in awe of someone because of a particular trait or feature	Robert adores Mary for her smiling eyes.
adorn something/somebody with something	to decorate or ornament someone or something with something	They adorned the room with garlands of flowers. The walls were adorned with paintings. The children adorned themselves with flowers.
adulterate something with something	to dilute or taint something with some other substance; to make food or drink less pure by adding another substance to it	They adulterated the wine with some sort of drug. The water supply had been adulterated with chemicals from the soil.
advance (up)on something/somebody	to move toward someone or something (Typically in military maneuvers or in team sports, such as American football; Upon is more formal and less commonly used than on)	They advanced upon the town, firing their rifles and shouting.
advance something to something/somebody (against something)	to make an early payment of a sum of money promised or owed to a person or organization	We advanced the money to Tom against his next month's salary.
advance to(ward) something/somebody	to move forward in the direction of someone or something	The line of people slowly advanced to the door of the theater.
advertise for something/somebody	to advertise one's intention to purchase something or hire a particular type of person	Did you advertise for a new receptionist? We are currently advertising for a new sales manager.
advertise something for something	to make known by public notice that something is to be sold at a particular price	Is this the one that was advertised for a dollar?
advertise something for something	to make known by public notice, such as broadcast or print notice, that something is available for purchase or rent	Was this apartment advertised for rent?
advise against something	to recommend not doing something; to suggest that something not be done	The doctor advised him against carrying heavy loads. Lisa always advises against hasty actions.
advise somebody about something/somebody	to inform someone about someone or something; to counsel someone about someone or something	Bill needs to advise the committee about Karen's request.
advise somebody against something	to encourage or counsel someone not to do something	I advised Bill against quitting his job.
advise somebody of something	to inform someone of specific facts or some other information	I hope you will advise Larry of the details of the proposal.
advise somebody on something/somebody	to provide someone with specific advice about someone or something	Would you please advise me on what kind of computer to buy?
affix something to something/somebody	to sign one's name on something	I affixed my signature to each of the documents.
affix something to something/somebody	to fasten, stick or attach something to someone or something	Please affix these tags to your luggage. The label should be firmly affixed to the package.
afflict somebody with something/somebody	to burden someone with an annoying person	I was foolish enough to afflict myself with my young cousin for the weekend.
afflict somebody with something/somebody	to burden someone with trouble	We were afflicted with all the worry that comes with raising a teenager.
afflict somebody with something/somebody	to cause someone to suffer from a disease or disability	The virus has afflicted everyone in the valley.

(be) afraid of somebody/something	feeling fear; frightened because you think that you might be hurt or suffer	It's all over. There's nothing to be afraid of now. Are you afraid of spiders? After Tom was robbed, he was even afraid of his own shadow.
(be) afraid of somebody/something	feeling fear or anxiety; frightened	I’m afraid of dogs. She tried to think about the future without feeling afraid.

age out (of something)	[for an adult] to grow [mentally or in years] out of certain behavior or out of a group or classification that is based on age (Jargon)	Most of them tend to age out at about 35.
agitate against something/somebody	to stir up active dissatisfaction about someone or something	The students were agitating against the closing of the old cafeteria.
agitate for something	to argue strongly for something you want, especially for changes in a law, in social conditions, etc.; to stir up active support for something	The committee agitated for a change, but nothing was done.
agree (up)on something/somebody	to agree to the choice of someone or something	Let's try to agree upon a date.
agree (with something) (in something)	[for grammatical features] to match or go together with other grammatical features	The subject and the verb agree in number.
agree (with somebody) about/on something	to have the same opinion as somebody; to say that you have the same opinion	He agreed with them about the need for change. I agree with him on that point. We agreed about ending the matter.
agree to something	to consent to something; to allow something to be done; to approve something	If you don't agree to my leaving early, I'll just do it anyway. I wish she would agree to my proposal. We agreed to the solution for the problem. They agreed to leaving earlier.
agree with something/somebody	to hold the same opinion or judgment as someone else	I simply do not agree with you!
agree with something/somebody	[for something] to be acceptable to someone as food (Usually negative, referring to the disagreeable consequences of eating bad food)	Onions do not agree with me.
agree with something/somebody	[for something] to be in accord with something else	Your analysis agrees with mine. He agrees with exercising daily.
agree with something/somebody	[for something] to look good or go well with something else	This dress does not agree with these shoes, does it?
aid and abet somebody	to help someone; to incite someone to do something, possibly something that is wrong (originally a legal phrase)	He was scolded for aiding and abetting the boys who were fighting.
aid somebody in doing something	to help someone do something	He aided her in fixing up the back bedroom.
aid somebody in something	to help someone in some kind of trouble	Will you aid me in this difficulty?
aim at something/somebody	to direct towards a target	The policeman aimed his gun at the hijacker. The magazine is AIMED AT teenagers.
aim for something	to strive toward a particular goal; to direct oneself or one's energies toward something	You should aim for success. Aim at getting this done on time.
aim something at something/somebody	to point or direct something at someone or something	Wally aimed the hose at Sarah and tried to soak her.
aim to do something	to intend to do something	I didn't aim to hurt your feelings, sugar, you know I didn't.
alert (somebody) to something	to something to make someone aware of trouble or potential trouble	The auditors alerted us to some problems with the accounts.
alert (somebody) to something	to be aware of something, especially a problem or danger	We must be alert to the possibility of danger. She was alert to the slightest sound.
alienate somebody (from something/somebody)	to make somebody less friendly or sympathetic; to cause someone to feel negative about someone or something; to make somebody feel that they do not belong in a particular group	His comments have alienated a lot of young voters. The teacher alienated the entire class from the subject of calculus. Very talented children may feel alienated from the others in their class.
alight (up)on something/somebody	to land on something; [for a bird or other flying animal] to come to rest on something (Upon is more formal than on)	A small bird alighted on the branch directly over my head. It alighted upon the branch and began to sing.
alight from something	to get off something; to get down off something	Almost three hundred people alighted from the plane.
align oneself with something/somebody	to bring oneself into agreement with someone or someone's ideas; to associate oneself with someone or someone's cause	She sought to align herself with the older members.
align something (with/to something)	to adjust, straighten, or arrange something in reference to something else	Try to align this piece with the one next to it.
align something (with/to something)	to change something slightly so that it is in the correct relationship to something else	Domestic prices have been aligned with those in world markets.
allocate something (for/to something/somebody)	to give or assign something to someone or something (Between with two, among with three or more); to give something officially to somebody/something for a particular purpose	The committee allocated the surplus cheese to the elderly people in the community. David allocated the money among all the members. He allocated the work between Fred and George. We had to allocate the money between the philanthropy and social committees. A large sum has been allocated for buying new books for the library. They intend to allocate more places to mature students this year. More resources are being allocated to the project.
allot something to something/somebody	to give or assign something to someone or something	We will allot a share of the proceeds to charity. I allotted a small portion of the work to Fred. How much money has been allotted to us?
allow (something) for something/somebody	to include something in a plan or calculation	You should ALLOW FOR delays when planning a journey. You have to allow for unexpected expenses in your budget.
allow (something) for something/somebody	to take into consideration; include in a calculation	You'd better leave early to allow for heavy traffic.
allow (something) for something/somebody	if something is given full play, it is used or developed as much as possible	The themes of love and bereavement are given full play in Oliver's new novel. He urges that market forces should be allowed full play in the villages.
allow (something) for something/somebody	to consider particular facts that relate to something	If you own stock, you must allow for the possibility that it will lose value.
allow (something) for something/somebody	to plan on having enough of something (such as food, space, etc.) for someone	Mary is bringing Bill on the picnic, so be sure to allow for him when buying the food. Allow for an extra person when setting the table tonight.
allow (something) for something/somebody	to plan on the possibility of something	Allow for a few rainy days on your vacation. Be sure to allow for future growth when you plant the rosebushes.
allow (something) for something/somebody	to allocate a share or a suitable amount of something, such as time, money, space, etc., for some activity or goal	I allowed only an hour for lunch. They did not allow enough money for their expenditures this month.
allow (something) for something/somebody	to give consideration to circumstances or contingencies	We allowed room for expansion when we designed the building. Allowing for his youth and lack of experience, I forgave him completely for his oversight.
allow somebody up (from something)	to permit someone to arise or get up (Fixed phrase)	He knocked Peter down and would not allow him up from the ground. The doctor won't allow you up!
allow something/somebody in(to) something	to permit someone or something to enter some place	Will they allow you in the restaurant without a tie? They won't allow in too many visitors.
alloy something with something	to combine one molten metal into another molten metal	Is it possible to alloy copper with nickel? The copper has been alloyed with nickel.
alloy something with something	to combine one quality or attribute with another	She alloyed her courage with a helping of wisdom. Her courage has been alloyed with wisdom.
allude to (somebody/something)	to refer to someone or something briefly or indirectly	In his letter, Dick alluded to problems the company was facing, but he never suggested they were going out of business.
allude to (somebody/something)	to refer to someone or something; to make an implication about someone or something	I did not mean to allude to someone you disliked so much. I alluded to the accident only once.
allude to (somebody/something)	to mention something in an indirect way	The problem had been alluded to briefly in earlier discussions.
ally (oneself) (with somebody) (against something/somebody)	to unite or affiliate with someone in opposition to someone or something	Sally allied herself with John against the committee. We allied with the older ones against the younger ones. They allied themselves against the attackers. She sought to ally herself to the older members. Jane allied herself to the teacher almost immediately.
alternate between somebody and somebody; alternate between something and something	to choose or change between two persons or things alternately	The job will alternate between Gil and Ed. The maid will alternate between the first floor and the second floor.
alternate with something/somebody	[for someone] to serve as a substitute for someone	I alternated with Fred as the lead in the school play. They asked Harry to alternate with Ron on the team.
alternate with something/somebody	[for something] to appear repetitively and regularly in a sequence with something else (For instance, A alternates with B in the sequence ABABAB)	In this design the straight lines alternate with the circles. The red dots alternate with the blue ones.
amalgamate something (into/with something)	to unite something with something else; to put two or more things together so that they form one	We will amalgamate this company with another firm. How long has our local been amalgamated with the national union? This information will be amalgamated with information obtained earlier.
amalgamate something (into/with something)	to join with something; to merge with something	Our group decided to amalgamate with another group. The groups did not amalgamate after all.
amble along; amble down/over to something	to walk along casually at a slow relaxed speed somewhere	They ambled along the path. I was just ambling along, minding my own business, when I tripped. We ambled down to the beach. They ambled along for miles. Mark ambled over to the girls.
amount (up) to something	[for a sum of money] to increase [to a large amount]	Is that everything you want to buy? That amounts to twenty dollars. These charges amount up to a lot.
amount to something	to be the same as something else	A decrease in student aid amounts to an increase in tuition fees. She thought he was wrong to take what amounts to a stand against greater freedom.
amount to something	to present some revealing information about someone or something	What you have just told me throws a lot of light on George and his motivation. Will you please throw some light on the problem?
amount to something	[for someone or something] to become worthwhile or successful	I hope Charles amounts to something some day. I doubt that this business will ever amount to anything really profitable.
amount to something	[for something] to be the equivalent of something	Why, doing this amounts to cheating! Your comments amount to treason.
amount to something	to be nearly the same thing, after you consider it	She wanted him to suffer and she wanted to punish him, which amounts to the same thing.
amount to something	to be the same [as something]	Borrowing can be the same as stealing. If the owner does not know what you have borrowed, it amounts to the same thing. With cars - whether they're red or blue - it comes to the same thing.
amuse somebody with something	to entertain or interest someone with something	Try to amuse the child with this little toy. She was able to amuse herself with the puzzle for a while.
angle for something	to try to get something indirectly, by hinting or suggesting	He's been ANGLING FOR an invitation, but I don't want him to come.
angle for something	to fish for something, as with a fishhook and line	Fred was angling for a big bass. I am angling for whatever I can catch.
angle for something	to scheme or plan to get something; to "fish" for something	She is just angling for a larger settlement from her former employer. Are you angling for a raise in pay?
angle for something	to try to get or achieve something in an indirect way	He's working as a consultant with several companies that are angling for business in Hong Kong.
angle off (to/toward something)	to turn or move toward something at an angle	The road angles off to the right. The sailboat angled off toward the direction the wind was blowing.
(be) angry with/at somebody (about/for something); (be) angry at/about/over something	having strong feelings about something that you dislike very much or about an unfair situation	Please don't be angry with me. It wasn't my fault. He felt angry at the injustice of the situation. The passengers grew angry about the delay.
annex (something) to something	[for a governmental body of a town or city] to attach a parcel of land onto an existing parcel of land through legal proceedings	The village annexed some adjacent land to itself. The adjoining lot was annexed to the site to allow for a bigger building.
annex (something) to something	[for the owner of a parcel of land] to have land attached to an adjacent town or city	Our community doesn't want to annex to Adamsville. The town voted to annex to the neighboring city of Smithton.
announce something for something/somebody	to declare one's political support for someone or something	The senator announced for the Supreme Court nominee. Our club announced for the incumbent candidate.
announce something to somebody	to tell something publicly to someone	The president announced his nominee for attorney general to the media. When was the news announced to the public?
anoint somebody/something (with something)	to put oil or water on somebody's head as part of a religious ceremony	The priest anointed her with oil. They anointed the king with oil and praised him greatly. He anointed himself with a menthol rub that was meant to help his cold symptoms.
answer back (to somebody)	to reply rudely to someone in authority	Don't answer back your mother! Her mother was shocked when she started ANSWERING her BACK and refusing to help.
answer back (to somebody)	to talk back (to someone); to argue (with someone)	I wish you wouldn't answer back to me that way. Please don't answer me back like that!
answer for something/somebody	to be held responsible for a problem	The government should be made to ANSWER FOR their failure to sort out the problem.
answer for something/somebody	to speak for another person; speak on behalf of someone or from knowing them	I can ANSWER FOR my partner because I know her position on this issue. I can't answer for Chuck, but I do have my own opinion. I will answer for my friend in his absence.
answer for something/somebody	to vouch for someone; to tell of the goodness of someone's character	Mr. Jones, who had known the girl all her life, answered for her. He knew she was innocent. I will answer for Ted. He could not hurt a flea.
answer for something/somebody	to admit responsibility for causing a problem or situation	If you mix art and politics critics get upset and you have to answer for it. He may not go to jail, but someday he is going to have to answer for what he did before God.
answer for something/somebody	to explain or justify the actions of someone or some act; to take responsibility or blame for someone or something	You will have to answer for your children's bad behavior. I will answer only for my own misdeeds.
answer to something/somebody	to be responsible to someone else	If you own your own company, you do not have to answer to stockholders.
answer to something/somebody	to explain or justify one's actions to someone (Usually with have to)	If John cannot behave properly, he'll have to answer to me. The car thief will have to answer to the judge.
answer to something/somebody	[in the hierarchy of the workplace] to be under the supervision of someone; to report to someone	You will answer directly to Mr. Wright. I answer only to the boss.
answer to something/somebody	to match a particular set of physical or facial characteristics	Chuck answers to the description his sister gave us. The man in police custody answers to the description of the burglar.
answer to something/somebody	to respond to a particular name	I answer to the name Walter. She answers to the name of Claire.
apologize (to somebody) (for something)	to say that you are sorry for doing something wrong or causing a problem	Why should I apologize? Go and apologize to her. We apologize for the late departure of this flight. He apologized to his friends for his rude behavior.
appeal against something	to ask a court of appeals to change a ruling made by a lower court	My lawyer appealed against the judgment. We will file an appeal against the court ruling.
appeal (to somebody) (for something)	to plead to a court of appeals for a favorable ruling	She appealed to the court for a retrial. She appealed for an injunction to the circuit court. She appealed for a retrial.
appeal (to somebody) (for something)	an urgent and deeply felt request for money, help or information, especially one made by a charity or by the police	The organizers appealed to the crowd to stay calm.
appeal (to somebody) (for something)	to please or attract someone	Fast food doesn't appeal to me. The idea of a vacation to Florida this winter appeals to me a lot.
appear (up)on something	to arrive and be seen on something (Upon is more formal and less commonly used than on)	A fly appeared on the sterile bandages. A small bird appeared on our mailbox.
appear as something	to act a certain part in a play, opera, etc.	Madame Smith-Franklin appeared as Carmen at the City Opera last season. The actor refused to appear as a villain in the play.
appear as something	[for something] to be seen or occur in a particular form or with particular characteristics	The tumors appear as shadows on the X-ray. The first signs of the disease appear as a fever and a rash.
appear before something/somebody	to have a trial or hearing with a particular judge or court	You have to appear before Judge Cahill tomorrow. Have you ever appeared before the Supreme Court?
appear before something/somebody	to show up in the presence of someone, suddenly	The deer appeared before us with no sound or other warning. A frightful specter appeared before me.
appear before something/somebody	to arrive in advance of the appointed time or before some event	Please appear at least ten minutes before you are due. It is best to appear shortly before the time of your interview.
appear for somebody	to represent or substitute for a person who is absent	I will appear for you in the council. Who is going to appear for my lawyer, who is ill?
appear in something	to be seen in some performance	The singer will appear in the opera with the rest of the chorus. I will appear in Aida.
appear in something	to be seen wearing something	I wouldn't appear in that in public! Would you want to appear in a wrinkled suit?
appear to somebody	[for something] to make an appearance before someone	My late grandmother appeared to me in a dream.
appear to somebody	to seem to someone that	It appears to me that you are always late.
append something (on)to something	to attach something to something; to hang something onto something	Please append these tassels onto the hem of your coat. Append this sentence to the last paragraph. Footnotes have been appended to the document. The principal has the right to append comments to the final report.
appertain to somebody/something	[of a responsibility or privilege] to belong to something as a right	Do these rights appertain to a third cousin of the deceased? The statement doesn't make sense. It appertains to no one as it is stated.
appertain to somebody/something	to belong or refer to somebody/something	These figures appertain to last year's sales.
apply (to something/somebody) (for something)	to make a formal request for something (job, permit, loan, etc.)	He applied for the job advertised. She is applying for Georgia State University. She applied for a teaching assistantship. You must apply to the proper office for permission. I applied to seven colleges for admission.
apply (to something/somebody) (for something)	[for rules, laws, etc.] to affect someone or something; to be relevant to someone or something	Does this rule apply to me? These policies apply only to very large companies.
apply oneself to something	to work hard and diligently at something	You should apply yourself to your studies. She applied herself to her work and the time passed very rapidly.
apply something to something	to put something onto the surface of something	Apply the decal to the surface of the glass. Apply the paint evenly to each surface.
apply something to something	to use something, such as force, effort, etc., on something or in the performance of some task	Apply more effort in your school work. An even greater effort has been applied to make sure we finish on time.
apply within	to ask about something [inside some place] (Usually part of a sign or announcement posted outside a place)	The sign outside the office read, "Apply within." If you are interested in working here, please apply within.
appoint somebody to something	to select or assign someone to serve in a particular role (Usually focusing on the role of the person or on a group of persons with similar roles)	l am going to appoint you to the position of treasurer. Fred tried to appoint himself to the board of directors, but it violated the by-laws.
apportion something out	to divide something and distribute it among people	He apportioned the cake out among the guests. He apportioned out the applications among all those in the waiting room.
appraise something at something	to study something and place a monetary value on it	They appraised the house at twice what it is worth. The diamond ring was appraised at a very high price.
apprentice somebody to somebody	to assign someone to work at a certain trade and learn it from someone experienced	She apprenticed her son to a local diesel mechanic. I apprenticed myself to a printer and learned what it means to get really dirty.
apprise somebody of something	to inform someone of something	I hope you will apprise me of any change. Have you been apprised of the new rule?
appropriate something for something	to allot a certain amount of money for a particular purpose	They will appropriate $10,000 for the exhibit at the fair. A large sum was appropriated for the expenses.
appropriate something for something	to take something [from someone else] and use it as something else or for a purpose different from what was intended	Walter appropriated a truck for an ambulance. It was necessary to appropriate your laptop for connecting to the Internet.
approve of something/somebody	to take a favorable view of someone or something	I approve of the way you have remodeled the kitchen. I don't approve of your foul language. The teacher approved of his plan for his research paper.
arbitrate between (somebody and somebody else)	to mediate between two disagreeing parties; to help two disagreeing parties to resolve their differences	Jane was called upon to arbitrate between the workers and the manager. I arbitrated between Fred and his ex-wife.
arbitrate in (a dispute)	to mediate or negotiate a settlement in a dispute	She refuses to arbitrate in this dispute. I will arbitrate in this little disagreement.
arch over something/somebody; arch something/somebody over	to stand or remain bent or curved over someone or something	The tree arched over in the wind. Arch yourself over gracefully and then straighten up. The tree arched itself over in the windstorm.
arch over something/somebody; arch something/somebody over	to bend or curve over someone or something	The trees arched gracefully over the walkway. A lovely bower of roses arched over the bride.
arch something over something/somebody	to place something above someone or something to form an arch or archway	The cadets arched their swords over the bridal couple. The willow arched its long drooping branches over the tiny cabin.
argue (with something/somebody) (about/over something/somebody)	to dispute or quarrel over someone or something with someone	We're always arguing with each other about money. Are you going to argue with her over something so simple? I wish you wouldn't argue over money with me. We always argue about who should drive. Don't argue with me! I argued politely with Michael about his ideas on the economy.
argue (with something/somebody) (about/over something/somebody)	to challenge or dispute something; to dispute someone's statement of fact	I won't argue with your conclusions. It is not a good idea to argue with the facts.
argue against something/somebody	[for someone] to make a case against someone or something; to oppose the choice of someone or something in an argument	I am preparing myself to argue against the case. Liz argued against Tom as the new president, but we chose him anyway.
argue against something/somebody	[for something, such as facts] to support a case against someone or something in an argument; [for something, such as facts] to support a case against the choice of someone or something in an argument	I have uncovered something that argues against continuing this friendship. His own remarks argue against his qualifications for the office, but he probably will be elected anyway.
argue back	to argue with or oppose someone; to answer back (to someone); to talk back (to someone) (Usually said of persons who are supposed to listen and obey without comment)	Please don't argue back all the time. I wish you children did not argue back so much.
argue for something/somebody	to make a case in favor of someone or something; to speak on behalf of someone or something in an argument	Are you prepared to argue strongly for this proposal? We will argue for our candidate in the debate.
argue somebody down	to defeat someone in a debate	Sally could always argue him down if she had to. She tries to argue down everyone she meets.
argue somebody into something	to convince or persuade someone to do something	She was unable to argue the manager into attending. She was unable to argue herself into doing something so unpleasant.
argue something down	to reduce something, such as a bill or a price, by arguing	I tried to argue the price down, but it did no good. Tom could not argue down the bill.
argue something down	to urge the defeat of a proposal or a motion in a meeting through discussion	I am prepared to argue the proposal down in court. She will argue down the proposal in the council meeting.
argue something out; argue out something	to settle something by discussing all the important points	We are going to have to argue this out some other time. Must we argue out every single detail of this contract? If we can't ARGUE our differences OUT, we'll have to take them to court.
arise from something	to be due to something; to be caused by something	This whole problem arose from your stubbornness. The labor problem arose out of mismanagement.
arise from something	to get up from something	What time did you arise from bed? I arose out of my slumbers at dawn.
arise from something	[for someone] to come from poor or unfortunate circumstances	She arose from poverty to attain great wealth. She arose out of squalor through her own hard work.
arise from something	[for something] to drift upward from something	The smoke arose from the burning oil wells. The smoke arose out of the exhaust pipe.
arm (somebody against something/somebody) (with something)	to equip someone with whatever is needed to fight against someone or something	They armed themselves against the enemy with guns and ammunition. The government armed the soldiers with the new guns.
arouse somebody from something	to activate a person out of a state of rest, sleep, or inaction	I could not arouse her from her sleep. She aroused herself from a deep sleep.
arrange something for something/somebody	to make plans for someone to do something	We will arrange for a celebration. John arranged for it. I will arrange for Charles to fix what he broke. I arranged for the plumber to install a new water heater.
arrange something for something/somebody	to plan something for a particular time	We will arrange a picnic for the afternoon. I will arrange an appointment for the noon hour.
arrange something for something/somebody	to prepare or plan something for someone or something	They arranged a reception for Frank. We arranged a dance for the holiday.
arrange something with something/somebody	to prepare or plan something that will include someone or something	We arranged entertainment with clowns and a musician. I will arrange a fancy dinner with wine and cloth napkins. Paul arranged a meeting with the opposition.
arrest somebody for something	if the police arrest somebody, the person is taken to a police station and kept there because the police believe they may be guilty of a crime	She was arrested for drug-related offences. You could get arrested for doing that.
arrive at something	to decide on or find something, especially after discussion and thought	We arrived at the test center on time. They arrived at the same solution for the problem.
arrive at something	to come to a decision or agreement about something after serious thought or discussion	The town council needs to explain how they arrived at their plan for future development of the town. Have you arrived at a decision yet? We will reach a decision tomorrow.
ascertain something from something/somebody	to find out or learn with certainty information from someone or something	I need to ascertain some facts from you. A few facts have been ascertained from the interview.
ascribe something to something/somebody	to attribute something to someone or something; to assert that something has been caused by someone or something	Please do not ascribe that attitude to my friends. We ascribed the offensive action to Jill and only Jill.
ashamed of something/somebody	feeling shame or embarrassment about somebody/something or because of something you have done	She was deeply ashamed of her behaviour at the party. His daughter looked such a mess that he was ashamed of her. You should be ashamed of yourself for telling such lies. The football riots made me ashamed to be English.
ashamed to do something	unwilling to do something because of shame or embarrassment	I'm ashamed to say that I lied to her. I cried at the end and I'm not ashamed to admit it. He felt ashamed to let her see him in this state.
ask after somebody	to enquire about someone's health, how life is going	Jenny rang earlier and ASKED AFTER you, so I told her you were fine. Mr. Smith asked after John.
ask around	to speak to a number of different people in order to try and get some information	I have no idea, but I'll ASK AROUND at work and see if anyone can help. I don't know of any vacancies in the company but I'll ask around. I asked around but nobody has seen my wallet. Do you have change for a 20? No, but ask around, I'm sure someone does.
ask for something	to provoke a negative reaction	You're ASKING FOR trouble.
ask for something	to say that you would like somebody to give you something	We asked for more time on the test.
ask somebody back	to invite somebody to come back to your house when you are both out together	I hoped he wouldn't ask me back.
ask somebody in	to invite somebody into your house	Jon's at the door. ASK him IN.
ask somebody out	to invite someone for a date	I'm going to ask her out tomorrow. He wanted to ASK her OUT but was too shy. Brian asked Judy out to dinner and a movie.
ask somebody over	To invite to one's home	I would ask him over for dinner, but I'm afraid he would eat too much. They have ASKED us OVER for drinks on Friday.
aspire to something	to seek or aim for something better	She aspires to a job more challenging than her current position. I aspire to far greater things.
assail somebody with something	to attack someone with something, such as a weapon	The crook assailed the officer with the officer's own club. The riot police were assailed with stones and bottles.
assail somebody with something	to pester or annoy someone with questions, requests, demands, etc.	Don't assail me with all your complaints. She assailed herself with constant guilty rebukes.
assent to something	to agree to something	I assent to what you suggest. She will not assent to our request.
assess something at something	to estimate or value something at some figure	They assess the value of our house at half what it would sell for. The house was assessed at far more than its true worth.
assign something/somebody to something/somebody	to attribute something to someone; to blame something on someone	We were forced to assign the blame to Robert. They assigned the responsibility for the accident to the driver of the car.
assign something/somebody to something/somebody	to designate someone or something as belonging to someone or something else	They assigned the new car to Roger. They assigned the new worker to the mail room.
assimilate something/somebody into something	to cause someone or something to be absorbed into something (As when a person or thing joins a group)	We sought to assimilate Arnold into the community. The manager had to assimilate the new policies into the list of current ones. They assimilated themselves into the general population.
assimilate with some people	to join or mix in with people and become accepted by them	It's easy for Karen to assimilate with new people. I want to assimilate rapidly with the other people in my class.
assist (somebody) at something	to serve as a helper or assistant in some procedure (This usually refers to a surgical procedure)	Will you assist at surgery this morning? I would be happy to assist you at the procedure.
assist (somebody) in something	to help with something	May I assist in this? Please assist in this task.
assist (somebody) in something	to help a particular person working on a task	Please assist Greg in the committee's assignment. We assisted him in the whole procedure.
assist somebody with something/somebody	to help someone manage someone or something, especially with lifting or physical management	Assist me with Jane, won't you? Will you assist me with this heavy box? Sally assisted herself with the math problem. She did it on her own.
associate (something/somebody) with something/somebody	to join someone or something as a partner or friend	I wanted to associate myself with a prestigious law firm. She associated herself with people of low repute.
associate (something/somebody) with something/somebody	to link someone or something [in one's mind] to someone or something else (Something and someone can occur in all possible combinations)	I always associate Walter with pizza for some reason. I associate pizza with stringy cheese.
associate (something/somebody) with something/somebody	to be friendly with someone; to be acquainted with someone socially in a work setting	We seek to associate with persons like ourselves. I like to associate with interesting people.
assume somebody/something to be/have something	to think or accept that something is true but without having proof of it	I had assumed him to be a Belgian.
assure somebody of something	to guarantee something to someone; to promise someone that something will happen or that a particular state exists	I want to assure you of our good intentions. Frequently, she had to assure herself of her basic worth.
astound somebody with something	to shock or amaze someone with something	She astounded us with her skill. He astounded himself with his sudden burst of strength.
atone for something	to make amends for an error; to act in a way that shows you are sorry for doing something wrong in the past	You must atone for the bad things you have done.
attach (something/somebody) to something/somebody	to become emotionally involved with someone	Fred seems to have attached himself to a much older woman, who has captured his attention. Somehow, Susan has attached herself emotionally to Tom, and she is distraught over his being away.
attach (something/somebody) to something/somebody	to follow after someone; to become a constant companion to someone	Andy's little brother attached himself to Andy and his friends. John attached himself to his older brother and drove him crazy.
attach (something/somebody) to something/somebody	to choose to associate with a particular thing, group, or organization	Ron attached himself to a volleyball team that practices at the school. The manager attached himself to the luncheon club and became a regular fixture there.
attach (something/somebody) to something/somebody	to connect or secure oneself to something	During the storm, Tony attached himself to the helm and proceeded to steer the boat. The caterpillar attached itself to a branch and began to spin its cocoon.
attach to something/somebody	[for blame, importance, guilt, fault, etc.] to become "fixed" onto someone or an organization	A lot of guilt attaches to Henry for his part in the plot. Most of the blame for the accident attaches to Roger.
attach to something/somebody	[for something] to be meant to fit onto or into something	This one attaches to this other one right at this point. This part should have attached to the back of the desk, but it didn't fit.
attend to something/somebody	To see about something (formal)	I have to some business to attend to.
attend to something/somebody	to give care to someone who is ill	Malone flew home to attend to his wife, who was in the hospital.
attend to something/somebody	to listen to someone	Please attend to your teacher's instructions. Attend to the announcement of the new flight departure time.
attend to something/somebody	to deal with something	Firefighters attended to a smoking car outside the building.
attend to something/somebody	to take care of the needs of someone or something; to respond to a request or demand from someone or something	Please attend to your wounded friend. Would you please attend to the action points of this memo?
attest to something	to certify or bear witness to a fact	I cannot attest to what you have reported. The witness attested to the suspect's presence at the scene of the crime. Contemporary accounts attest to his courage and determination.
attract (something/somebody) to (something/somebody)	to draw or pull someone or something to someone or something else	The poster attracted a large number of people to the concert. The shouting attracted a lot of attention from the people who were nearby. What first attracted me to her was her sense of humour.
attribute something to something/somebody	to ascribe something to someone or something; to believe that someone or something is the source of something	We attribute our success to your good advice. I attribute all these ill-mannered memos to Andrew.
attribute something to something/somebody	to say that someone else was responsible for creating something (usually said about a piece of writing or an idea)	Any quotation included in your writing has to be attributed to the person who originally wrote it.
attribute something to something/somebody	to say that one thing is the result of something else	The company attributed its decline to some bad investments.
auction something off	to sell something [to the highest bidder] at an auction	He auctioned his home off. He auctioned off his home. The duke was forced to auction off his ancestral home to pay his taxes.
audition (somebody) for something	to try out for a part in something (In a setting in which one's singing, speaking, or playing is heard and judged)	I plan to audition for the lead role in the school play. Liz auditioned for The Mikado.
audition (somebody) for something	to allow someone to try out for a part in a performance; to judge someone's singing, speaking, or playing potential for a part in a performance	Will you audition anyone else for the part? Have you been auditioned for a part in the school play?
augur well/badly for something/somebody	to indicate or predict good things for someone or something (Usually in the negative)	This latest economic message does not augur well for the stock market. I am afraid that this poll data does not augur well for the incumbent in the election.
avail (oneself) of something	to take advantage of something (an opportunity)	When the company is privatized, you should avail yourself of the opportunity and buy some shares.
avail (oneself) of something	to help oneself by making use of something that is available	We availed ourselves of Tom's goodwill and let him repair the fence. The campers availed themselves of the first chance in a week to take a shower.
avail (oneself) of something	to use something for your own benefit	Many students avail themselves of government loan programs to help pay for college.
avenge oneself (on something/somebody) (for something)	to get even with, or take revenge against someone or something for some hurt or damage	They avenged themselves on the enemy for the surprise attack. He avenged himself against the storekeeper for the false charges. Mary avenged herself for her ex-husband's neglect to pay child support. Tom avenged himself on Bill for Bill's previous insults.
average out (at/to something)	to equal something as the average of a set of figures	The figures averaged out at what was expected. Will the charges average out to a reasonable figure? Over time, our expenses will average out to a low monthly outlay.
average out (at/to something)	to equal an amount over a period of time	I think our hotel costs would average out to thirty-five or forty dollars a night per person.
average something up	to calculate the average of a set of figures	Please add these figures and average them up. Please average up all the monthly expenses for the previous year. Will you please average these figures up on the calculator?
avert something (away) from something/somebody	to turn or divert something away from someone or something; to turn your eyes, etc. away from something that you do not want to see	We will attempt to avert attention from the problems. She averted her eyes from Bill when he walked by. She averted her eyes from the terrible scene in front of her.
awake(n) somebody from something	to wake up from something, such as a dream or a deep sleep	Tom awakened from a deep sleep at the sound of the phone ringing. At dawn, she awoke from her slumbers.
awake(n) somebody from something	to cause someone to wake up from something	The crowing of the rooster awakened Sally from her slumbers. She awakened herself from a deep sleep when she fell out of bed.
awake(n) somebody to something	to make someone alert to something, such as a problem or a need	We need to awaken the voters to the need for more taxes. They awakened themselves to their callousness and began to treat other people better.
award something (to something/somebody) (for something)	to give a prize or reward to someone (for something)	The committee awarded a plaque to Andy for his loyalty. They awarded prizes for efficiency to two different people.
award something (to something/somebody) (for something)	[for a judge or other legal entity] to decide in favor of a person or group	The judge awarded the judgment to the plaintiff. The jury awarded a large sum to the smaller company.


babysit for/with somebody	to attend and care for a child for a period of time	I'm looking for someone to babysit for my cousin. Will you babysit with my cousin? Would you mind babysitting Roger for me for a few minutes? Sure, I will babysit for you.
back away	to retreat or go backwards, in fear or dislike	When he saw the dog, he backed away. The crowd BACKED AWAY when the man pulled a knife.
back down	to retract or withdraw your position or proposal in an argument	She refused to BACK DOWN and was fired.
back down	to retreat, relent; withdraw; concede defeat	He didn't back down. He just kept on insulting me. Local authorities backed down on their plans to demolish the cinema.
back off	to not follow a threat; to step back	The man threatened to call the cops, but he backed off when I said I would pay for the damages. The police told the protesters to BACK OFF.
back out (of)	to fail to keep an arrangement or promise	He BACKED OUT two days before the holiday so we gave the ticket to his sister. She BACKED OUT OF the agreement at the last minute.
back something/somebody up	to give support or encouragement	If I tell the boss we've got too much work, will you back me up? My wife backed me up over my decision to quit my job. The rest of the staff BACKED her UP when she complained about working conditions.
back something/somebody up	to make a copy (computer data, etc.)	It is recommended to back up all files. You should always BACK UP important files and documents so that you won't lose all your work if something goes wrong with the hardware.
back something/somebody up	to move backward; move in reverse	You still have some room to back up a bit. You'll have to back up your car so that I can get out.
back something/somebody up	to confirm a story, facts, or information	If you don't believe me, ask Bill. He'll back me up.
backfire on somebody	[for something, such as a plot] to fail unexpectedly; to fail with an undesired result	Your plot backfired on you. I was afraid that my scheme would backfire on me.
bad-mouth somebody/something	to say negative things about someone or something	Mr. Smith was always bad-mouthing Mrs. Smith. They just didn't get along. John bad-mouths his car constantly because it is too small for him. She's always bad-mouthing her colleagues. Bad-mouthing the police is hardly an original occupation.
badger somebody into something	to pester someone into doing something	Don't try to badger us into doing it. My brother and I were badgered into cleaning out the garage.
bag out	to criticise	Don't bag out BAG OUT Australian English.
bail (somebody/something) out (of something)	to save (someone)	The Democrats have a plan to bail out the automotive industry. The government had to BAIL OUT the airline because it was losing so much money.
bail (somebody/something) out (of something)	to help someone out of a difficult situation by providing money	When the airlines began to fail, they asked the government to bail them out. The government bailed out the bank.
bail (somebody/something) out (of something)	to help someone who is having difficulties	When my brother went broke, I had to bail him out with a loan. I need some cash to bail out a friend!
bail (somebody/something) out (of something)	to remove water from something that is flooded by dipping or scooping	The boat was leaking so they had to BAIL it OUT. Tom has to bail the boat out before we get in. You should always bail out a boat before using it. Would you bail this boat out? I will bail out the boat.
bail (somebody/something) out (of something)	to pay money to secure someone's release	When he was arrested, his family refused to bail him out.
bail (somebody/something) out (of something)	to abandon a situation; to get out of something	John got tired of school, so he just bailed out. Please stay, Bill. You've been with us too long to bail out now. The pilot BAILED OUT when he saw that the engines had failed. John still remembers the first time he bailed out of a plane. When we get to 8,000 feet, we'll all bail out and drift down together. We'll open our parachutes at 2,000 feet.
bail (somebody/something) out (of something)	to stop doing something or being involved in something 	Bad working conditions have caused many nurses to bail out of the profession. The TV show triggered a number of protests, and some of the sponsors bailed out.
bail (somebody/something) out (of something)	to rescue someone or something from trouble or difficulty	The proposed law was in trouble, but Senator Todd bailed out the bill at the last minute. I was going to be late with my report, but my roommate lent a hand and bailed me out at the last minute.
bail out on somebody	to stop supporting someone when they are in trouble	Everybody BAILED OUT ON him when the scandal broke.
bail up	to rob someone at gunpoint	He was BAILED UP by a couple of muggers as he came out of the bank.
bail up	to talk to someone and delay them	I was late because he BAILED me UP on the phone and wouldn't shut up.
balance (something) against (something)	to consider one thing in reference to another; to weigh one possibility against another possibility	We will have to balance all the good he did against all the bad. The good will be balanced against the bad in the final reckoning.
balance (something) with (something)	to offset something with something else; to balance something against something else	The teacher tends to balance a harsh grading scheme with a strong sense of fair play. Roger balanced the spicy soup with a bland first course. They balanced his bad behavior with the good, but still felt he was much too rude.
balance out	to equal out; to become even or fair	These things all balance out in the end. Don't worry. Things will balance out.
ball up (something)	to confuse or make things complicated	The new project has BALLED me UP - I have no idea what to do.
ball up (something)	to roll or form into a round shape	He BALLED UP his napkin when he had finished eating.
balls up	to spoil, ruin	He BALLSED the presentation UP.
ban somebody from something	to prohibit someone from doing something	We banned everyone from smoking. Everyone has been banned from smoking.
ban somebody from something	to prohibit someone from entering something or some place (The same as bar someone from some place)	They banned us from the building. The manager banned the children from the theater.
band together (against something/somebody)	to unite in opposition to someone or something; to unite against someone or something	We must band together against the enemy. Everyone banded together to finish the cleanup work.
bandage something/somebody up	to wrap bandages on someone or on someone's wounds	We should bandage the wounds up first. We should bandage up the wounds first. I have to bandage him up before we can move him. She bandaged herself up with the supplies she kept in her backpack.
bandy something about	to argue [with someone]; to argue by "playing catch with words;" (Bandy means to toss or hit something back and forth;)	Why are you bandying with me? She has been bandied with enough. Give her a straight answer.
bandy something about	to spread something, such as someone's good name, around in an unfavorable context; to toss words around in a gossipy fashion (Bandy means to toss or hit something back and forth)	Just stop bandying words about and start telling the truth! There is no need to keep bandying about those rumors.
bandy something about	to talk about something without being careful about facts	The number $31 million was bandied about at the time, although actual losses might have been much lower.
bang about	to move in a place making a lot of noise	He's BANGING ABOUT in the kitchen.
bang around	to move in a place making a lot of noise	I can hear him BANGING ABOUT upstairs.
bang on about	keep talking about something	He is always BANGING ON ABOUT football.
bang out	play a musical instrument loudly	She BANGED the tune OUT on the piano.
bang up	damage badly	He BANGED his car UP last night.
bang up	put someone in prison	The judge BANGED him UP for eight years.
banish something/somebody from something	to ban or evict someone or something from some place	The town council banished motorcycles from all the parks in town. The new law banished vagrants from the train station.
bank on something/somebody	base your hopes on something/someone	Don't forget the date. I'm banking on your help. I'm BANKING ON your help. I can't do it alone.
bank on something/somebody	to be so sure of something that one can trust it as one might trust a bank with one's money	I will be there on time. You can bank on it. I need a promise of your help. I hope I can bank on it.
bank on something/somebody	to depend on something	All I can bank on is that when I tell Dad what happened, he'll know what to do.
bank something up	to heap or mound up something to guard against something	They had to build barriers to hide behind. They banked dirt and rubble up against the oncoming attackers. Who banked up this dirt against the flood? The river was rising, so we banked some dirt up. Walter banked the coals up against the side of the furnace. He banked up the coals against the side. Tim banked the coals up.
bar somebody from something	to prevent someone from entering some place	Please don't bar me from the movie theater. I will be quiet from now on. They were barred from the concert for smoking.
bare something to somebody	to reveal or disclose something to someone	I have to know a guy pretty well before I will bare my innermost thoughts to him. Our criminal involvement was bared to the judge.
barf (somebody) out	to become deranged, to a greater or lesser degree	Terry barfed out when he heard about the damage Nick had done to his car. Yuck! I thought I was going to barf out.
barf (somebody) out	to disgust someone (Fixed order)	You just barf me out! I barf myself out every time I look in the mirror.
bargain (over something/somebody) (with somebody)	to negotiate with someone about obtaining someone or something	I refuse to bargain over money with Dan. We will bargain with the supplier over prices. You can't bargain over Claire with Jeff as if she were a car!
bargain for something	to plan for something; to expect something	We knew the project would be difficult, but we didn't bargain for this kind of trouble. I bargained on an easier time of it than this.
barge in(to) (something/somebody)	to bump or crash into someone or something, possibly on purpose	She just barged into me and nearly knocked me over. Tom tripped, barged into the water cooler, and hurt his knee.
barge in(to) (something/somebody)	to enter suddenly and unexpectedly, interrupting something	He barged in while we were eating dinner. How can you barge in here like this and start shouting insults at me! He keeps BARGING IN and asking stupid questions when I am trying to work.
barge in(to) (something/somebody)	to go or come rudely into some place	He just barged right in without knocking. Don't barge in like that, without letting us know you're here! They BARGED INTO my office without knocking and started talking even though I was on the phone.
bark at something/somebody	to speak harshly to someone	Don't bark at me like that over such a trivial mistake! Ken barked at the children for being noisy.
bark at something/somebody	[for a dog] to make a characteristic sharp sound at someone or something (See also bark at someone)	The dog is barking at the traffic again. Their guard dog was barking at me.
bark something out at somebody	to say something harshly to someone	The sergeant barked the orders out at the recruits. He barked an order at his staff. The teacher barked a reprimand out to the class. He barked out the order clearly and loudly.
barrel along	to move along rapidly	The car was barreling along at a fairly rapid clip. Don't barrel along so fast that you miss the turn.
barrel in(to) (something)	to move into a place rapidly and with great force	Tony barreled into the room and interrupted the card game. He just barreled in without knocking.
barrel out (of something)	to move rapidly out of a place; to burst out of a place	The kids barreled out of town as fast as they could go. They heard the police siren and quickly barreled out.

barter (something) for (something)	to trade something for something else; to acquire something by exchanging goods or services, not by using money	He sought to barter the car for a large computer. She bartered the piano for a settee. I want to barter for a large amount of cloth. Will you barter for this month's rent? We will not barter over what you owe us.
barter something away	to trade something away; to lose something of value in a trade	Don't barter my car away! Don't barter away anything of such high value.
barter something off	to get rid of something by trading it for something else	See if you can barter that old desk off. She bartered off the used bookshelf.
barter with somebody	to enter into trading with someone without using money; to bargain with someone	Are you willing to barter with me, or is this strictly a cash transaction?

base something (up)on something/somebody	to ground something, such as one's opinion, decision, or thinking, on someone or something; to found one's ideas or attitude on something (upon is more formal and less commonly used than on)	I base my opinion on many, many facts. I based my opinion upon my own seasoned judgment. You must not base your opinion on one bad experience. I base my opinion on many years of studying the problem.

bash about	mistreat physically	If you BASH your monitor ABOUT like that, it would not last long.
bash (something) in	to crush something inward or to the inside; break, damage or injure by hitting	Don't bash the door in! It sounds like someone is bashing in the door. The burglars BASHED the door IN to enter the house.
bash out	write something quickly without much preparation	I BASHED the essay OUT the night before I had to hand it in.
bash something against something/somebody	to strike something against someone or something	He accidentallybashed his head against a beam. She bashed her sore elbow against Ted's forehead and both of them were hurt.
bash something/somebody around	to treat someone or something roughly (physically or figuratively); to beat on or abuse someone or something (physically or otherwise)	Stop bashing me around, and let's talk. The robber acted as though he was about to bash around his victims.
bash up	break, damage or hurt by hitting	They BASHED him UP in the fight in the pub last week and he had to go to hospital.

bask in something	to enjoy or revel in something, such as praise, fame, etc. (Alludes to a person or animal resting in the warming rays of the sun)	Alice enjoyed basking in her newfound fame. Lily loves basking in praise.

bat around something; bat something around	to discuss an idea or opinion; to discuss something back and forth	A bunch of us batted around ideas at the annual meeting. Let's bat this around a little bit tomorrow at our meeting. Do you want to bat around this matter a little more?
bat around something; bat something around	to knock something around with a bat or something similar	Terry spent a little time batting a ball around, then he went home. Let's bat around some balls before we go home.

bathe something/somebody in something	to blanket or spread over someone or something, as with light, vapor, color, etc.	The candles bathed her in a soft glow. The red of the sunset bathed the trees in an eerie light.
bathe something/somebody in something	to cleanse someone or something in something; to coat someone or something all over with some liquid (In a container of liquid or the liquid itself)	She bathed the baby in warm water. Liz bathed her injured hand in cold water. She bathed herself in the warm spring water and took a long nap under a tree.

batter something down	to smash or break down something, such as a wall, door, or any defensive structure	Do they have to batter anything down as part of the construction project? They battered down the wall as a first step in enlarging the house.
batter something/somebody up	to damage or harm someone or something	Max threatened to batter Lefty up within an inch of his life. Who battered up this desk?

battle (with somebody) (over something/somebody)	to argue or struggle with someone over someone or something (Not meant to involve physical fighting)	Why do you always have to battle with me over practically nothing? You shouldn't battle over just anything for the sake of argument!
battle against something/somebody	to struggle with someone or something	We are battling against the ancient enemies of ignorance and hatred. I am tired of battling against Karen.
battle against something/somebody	to wage a fight against someone or something; to attempt to defeat someone or something	The army battled against the enemy until both sides were exhausted.

battle for something	to attempt to win or gain something by struggling or arguing	Both of them battled for Kristina's attention. The army battled for the town until they had defeated its defenders.

battle something out	to argue something to a conclusion; to struggle to reach a conclusion	The Senate and the House disagree on the bill, so they will have to battle a compromise out. They battled the matter out and came to an agreement. The two young toughs went into the alley to battle out their differences.

bawl out (something)	sing or shout unpleasantly loudly	He BAWLED OUT our names at the top of his voice.
bawl (somebody) out	to scold someone in a loud voice	Mary's mother bawled her out for being mean to her sister. She BAWLED Raj OUT for getting there late. The teacher bawled the student out for arriving late. Principals don't usually bawl out students. She BAWLED me OUT for coming home drunk.

be accompanied by something	with something extra to go along with something else; with something to complement something else	Dessert was accompanied by a fine white wine.

be addicted to	physically and mentally dependent on a particular substance	she became addicted to alcohol and diet pills
be addicted to	informal enthusiastically devoted to a particular thing or activity	he’s addicted to computers

be after	to look for	The pirates are after the treasure.
be after	try to find or get	The police ARE AFTER him because of the theft.

be along	arrive	The next bus should BE ALONG in the next quarter of an hour or so.
be along	to arrive	He'll be along in a bit.

be annoyed with something/somebody; be annoyed at something	to be slightly angry; irritated	Kelly was annoyed with him. He was annoyed at being woken up so early. I got very annoyed watching the film.

be away	be elsewhere; on holiday, etc.	She is AWAY on business for three weeks.

be capable of doing something	having the ability to do something	Do you think Tom is capable of lifting 200 pounds? No one I know is capable of such a crime!

be committed to

be composed of

be concerned about

be connected to

be content with (something)	willing to accept something; satisfied	He had to be content with third place.

be convinced of

be cooking on gas	to be making good progress and to be likely to succeed	We're cooking on gas. Keep the work coming in like this and we'll meet the deadline.

be coordinated with

be crowded into (a room); crowded with (these people)

be cut out for	be suitable, have the necessary qualities	She is not CUT OUT FOR this kind of work.
be cut up	be upset	She was very CUT UP about coming second as she thought she deserved to win.

be dedicated to

be devoted to

be disappointed in/with

be discriminated against

be divorced from

be done with

be down	to be depressed	He has BEEN DOWN since his partner left him.
be down	to be reduced or less	The firm's profits ARE DOWN by ten percent this quarter.
be down	To be depressed	I've been feeling a little down recently.
be down with	to be ill	Gul is DOWN WITH some bug and is off work today.
be down with	To be on good terms with something/someone; To like/respect someone/something.

be dressed in

be encouraged with/by

be engaged to somebody or in something

be envious of

be equipped with

be every inch something	to be a particular kind of person in every way	He looked every inch the slick, city businessman.

be excited about

be exposed to

be faithful to

be familiar with

be fed up	be bored, upset or sick of something	I AM FED UP of his complaints.
be fed up/sick to the back teeth	to be bored or angry because a bad situation has continued for too long or a subject has been discussed too much (often + with)	He's been treating me badly for two years and, basically I'm fed up to the back teeth with it (often + of). You're probably sick to the back teeth of hearing about my problems!

be filled with

be finished with

be fond of

be for something/somebody	supporting or in favor of someone or something	I'm for abandoning the scheme. Mary is running for office, and the whole family is for her.

be furnished with

be grateful to/for

be guilty of

be in	to be at home or at work	They ARE never IN. I always get their answer phone. Are your parents in?
be in	to be submitted, arrive	The application form must BE IN by 3pm on Friday.
be in aid of	to be intended to help, cure, or resolve	What is all this in aid of? I don't understand what your comments are in aid of.
be in on	to be involved in	Susan was the only one who WASN'T IN ON the plan.
be in on	To be a part of; to be involved with; to know about	They police are obviously in on the plan.

be innocent of

be interested in

be involved in

be jealous of

be known for

be limited to

be made of/from

be married to

be minting it	to be earning a lot of money quickly	Ice cream sellers are minting it as the unseasonal heatwave continues.

be not on	be unacceptable	The way he's behaving IS just NOT ON.

be nothing short of [astonishing/miraculous etc.]	to be totally astonishing, miraculous etc.	His achievements as a political reformer have been nothing short of miraculous.

be nothing to shout about	to not be especially good or exciting	The pay rise wasn't much to shout about, but I suppose it's better than nothing.

be off	be bad (of food)	This yoghurt must BE OFF. It smells foul.
be off	depart, leave	I'm OFF home. It’s five o'clock.
be off	To be not quite right	The curry here is usually excellent, but today it's a little off.
be off	To not be at work (To have a day off work)	I'm off today. Let's do something fun!

be on	be functioning (of machines)	The computer IS ON.
be on	take medication or drugs, especially when they affect the person badly	He IS ON anti-depressants and has become very difficult to please.
be on	take place	The show IS ON for the next three months.
be on	To have a very good/successful performance (usually said of musicians, comics, and other entertainers)	If you go to a concert and a musician is playing or singing really well - you can say "He's really on tonight!"
be on about	mean, try to say	I couldn't understand what he WAS ON ABOUT. It made no sense.

be onto	pursue, be aware of someone's true nature	He's being very careful because he thinks the police ARE ONTO him.
be onto (somebody)	To realize what someone is doing; to figure out someone's game, trick, etc.	He thought that he had everyone fooled, but I was onto him. (I realized what he was doing)

be opposed to

be out	be absent from a place	She IS OUT on a visit for the day.
be out for/after somebody's scalp	to want to punish someone because you blame them for something bad that has happened	The mayor has made one mistake too many and the voters are out for his scalp.
be out in !
be out of	have no more left	We're OUT OF coffee so I'll have to go and get some. I'm afraid the TV's out of action. All military sites are totally out of bounds.
be out of	To have none left	We're out of milk. = We have no more milk. Towers is out of action with a broken wrist. I'll give you the money for my ticket now, so you won't be out of pocket.
be out to	to attempt	She IS OUT TO get him sacked because she hates him.
be out to (do something)	To want to (do something); To have the intention of (doing something)	He's out to kill me!

be over

be polite to

be prepared for

be proud of

be provided with

be related to

be relevant to

be remembered for

be responsible for

be satisfied with

be scared of

be snowed under	have too much work	We're completely SNOWED UNDER at work because it's the end of the tax year.

be taken aback	be shocked or surprised	I WAS TAKEN ABACK when I saw him because he's lost all his hair.
be taken with	like something	I WAS very TAKEN WITH the performance- it was superb.

be terrified of

be thankful for

be tired of/from

be up	be out of bed	She's not UP yet.
be up	have increased or risen	The company's profits ARE UP by fifteen percent.
be up	To be awake	I'm sorry, he's not up yet.
be up	when the time for something finishes or expires	Time's UP, please finish your drinks and leave.
be up to	be good enough	He's not UP TO the job; get someone else.
be up to	doing something naughty or wrong	What are those kids UP TO?
be up to (something)	To be doing (something); To have something planned	What are you up to? I can tell that he's up to something.

be upset with/by

be used to

be wise to somebody/something	something that you say which means that it is easy to understand what you could have done to prevent something bad from happening after it has happened	In retrospect I suppose we should have realised that she was in trouble and tried to help her, but then I suppose it's easy to be wise after the event. People often tell me they'd never have taken out a loan if they'd thought about it more carefully - but it's easy to be smart after the fact.
be wise to somebody/something	to know about and not be fooled by someone or something (Usage notes: often used in the forms wise up (to something/someone) or wise someone up (to something/someone))	He called in sick almost every Monday, and the boss quickly got wise to him. I finally wised up to their scheme. It's time they wised him up to what's really going on.

be worried about

beam somebody/something down	to be wrong overall the article was well-written although one or two points that she made were a little off beam	I'm afraid your calculations are way off beam.
beam somebody/something down	to send someone or something to earth as waves of energy	A few people liked my idea, but most just looked at me as though I'd beamed down from outer space.
beam somebody/something up	to send someone or something into space as waves of energy	Mission Control beamed up pictures of the spaceship taken from the space station. The ads show aliens beaming up a cow.
beam something/somebody up	to transport someone or something (up) to something (originally in the context of a Star Trek adventure, but also used jocularly)	The captain asked the first mate to beam him up. Please beam up the crew, Roger. Beam me up so I can see your penthouse suite!

bear down on	to move towards	She spotted him on the other side of the room and BORE DOWN ON him.
bear on	to influence, affect	The judge's character may well BEAR ON the final decision.

bear with (somebody)	to be patient with someone	Bear with me, I'll be done in about 10 minutes. Please BEAR WITH me a moment while I finish this email. Please bear with him for a moment while he tries to put this straight.

bear out	to confirm that something is correct	Statistics BEAR OUT the government’s positions on the issue.

bear someone/something up	to hold someone or something up; to support someone or something	Will this bench bear me up? This bench is so sturdy it would bear up an elephant.
bear someone/something up	to sustain or encourage someone	Your encouragement bore me up through a very hard time. I will bear up the widow through the funeral service as well as I can.
bear up (under something)	to hold up under something; to sustain the weight of something	How is the new beam bearing up under the weight of the floor? It isn't bearing up. It broke.
bear up (under something)	[for someone] to remain brave under a mental or emotional burden	Jill did not bear up well under problems with her family. Jill bore up quite well amid serious difficulties.
bear up (under something)	to be brave	I wonder where she finds the strength to bear up under so much unfair criticism.
bear up (under something)	to cope with something difficult or stressful	He's BEARING UP UNDER the pressure.

beat up (somebody); beat (somebody) up	to physically harm (someone)	What happened to you!? One of the school bullies beat me up today.
beat up (somebody); beat (somebody) up	to attack violently	The mugger BEAT him UP and stole his wallet.
beat down	strong sunshine	The sun WAS really BEATING DOWN and we couldn't stay outdoors.
beat out	to finish ahead of	Sandra beat out all the other contestants and finished first in the race.
beat someone to something	to get to something before someone else; to claim something before someone else does	You beat me to it and took the last cookie. Ken beat John to the door.

beaver away (at)	to work hard (doing something)	She is BEAVERING AWAY before her exams. I have to BEAVER AWAY AT it or else I will fail the course.

beckon to somebody	to signal someone to come	Wally beckoned to Sally, and she came over to him. Lily beckoned to Max and he turned his back on her.

become of something/somebody	to happen or occur to someone or something	Whatever became of Joe and his friends? I don't know what became of my other plaid sock. What became of Michael? Have you seen him lately? I haven't seen him for a long time.

bed down	to become established or successful over time	The new government has found it hard to BED DOWN and become accepted.
bed down	to sleep somewhere less comfortable than normal	We had to BED DOWN on the floor for the night.

bed out	to move a plant outside	I BEDDED the plants OUT when the weather warmed up.

bedeck something/somebody with something	to decorate someone or something with something	She bedecked herself with garlands of daisies. Karen bedecked the room with flowers.

beef about something/somebody	to complain about someone or something	Stop beefing about Karen. He is always beefing about his working conditions.

beef something up; beef up something	to add strength or substance to something	Let's beef this music up with a little more on the drums. They beefed up the offer with another thousand dollars.
beef something up; beef up something	improve or make more substantial	He beefed up his presentation with diagrams and statistics.
beef something up; beef up something	make something stronger or more solid	The company BEEFED UP their case when they saw that the public wouldn't accept their first explanation of the accident.
beef something up; beef up something	something that you say when you think someone does not have enough ideas to make their plans work	Where's the beef? The Senator has no new political initiatives or ideas.
beef something up; beef up something	to make something stronger or more effective	The city is beefing up police patrols, putting more cops on the street where they can be seen.

beg for something/somebody	to plead to be given someone or something	He missed Jane a lot and was just begging for her to return to him. Jane begged for another helping of ice cream.

beg (something) of somebody	to request earnestly that someone do something or grant something	Please help me. I beg it of you. I beg of you to help me. She begged a favor of Max.

beg something from somebody	to plead for something from someone	She begged the amount of a telephone call from someone who walked by. I begged a dollar from a kind lady who went by.

beg something off; beg off (on something)	to decline an invitation politely	She begged the trip to the zoo off. We all begged off the dinner invitation.
beg something off; beg off (on something)	to ask to be released from something; to refuse an invitation	I'm sorry, but I'll be out of town on the day of your party. I'll have to beg off on your invitation. I have an important meeting, so I'll have to beg off.
beg something off; beg off (on something)	to excuse yourself from something	I had the chance to spend the day at the beach, but I begged off, saying I had too much work on my desk.

begin by doing something	to start out by doing something first	We will begin by painting the house. She began by opening the door.

begin with something/somebody	to start off a sequence with someone or something	Let's have dinner begin with a nice clear soup. I will begin with Liz and take Frank next.

beguile somebody into something	to charm someone into doing something	You can't beguile me into stealing for you! I beguiled Tom into driving me to the airport.

beguile somebody out of something	to charm someone out of doing something	I will try to beguile them out of doing it. He beguiled her out of leaving.
beguile somebody out of something	to charm something away from someone	She's trying to beguile the old man out of a substantial amount of his money. Max beguiled the old lady out of her rings.

beguile somebody with something	to charm or fascinate someone with something	She beguiled her date with tales of her luxurious lifestyle. He spent the evening beguiling her with stories of the Old West.

behoove one to do something	[for someone] to be obliged to do something	It behooves you to apologize to her for how you insulted her. It behooves me to make up for all the help you have given me.

belch out	to burst, billow, or gush out	Smoke belched out of the chimney.
belch something up	to cause the release of something that goes upward	The fire belched flames and smoke up. The volcano belched up clouds of poison gasses.

believe in something/somebody	He believes in his solution for the problem. She believes in being well-educated.

bellow something out	to cry something out loudly with great force	Don't just say it. Bellow it out! Bellow out your name so we know who you are!

belly out	[for a sheet of fabric, such as a ship's sail] to fill out in the wind	The sails bellied out as the ship turned to catch the wind. When the sails bellied out, we began to move forward.

belly up (to something)	(of a business) bankrupt; dead (like a dead fish that floats belly up)	That's the end. This company is belly up. After the fire the firm went belly up.
belly up (to something)	intoxicated by alcohol	After four beers, I was belly up, for sure.
belly up (to something)	to move up to something, often a bar (usually in reference to nudging one's way to a bar)	The man swaggered in and bellied up to the counter and demanded my immediate attention. As he bellied up, he said, "Do you know who I am?"

belong to (something/somebody)	to be owned by someone or something	This one belongs to me. This desk belongs to the company. You can't take it home! She belongs to a tennis club.

belong under something	to be classified under some general category	This one belongs under the other category. This file belongs under A.

belt out (something); belt something out	to sing or play a song loudly and with spirit	They BELTED OUT the national anthems before the game. When she's playing the piano, she really belts the music out. She really knows how to belt out a song.
belt out (something); belt something out	to sing loudly and with enthusiasm (Usage notes: sometimes used to describe enthusiastic talk)	After five decades, Brother Ray can still belt out a soulful song. Keyes has belted out speeches warning about the need to rebuild the nation's moral fiber.

belt something/somebody down	to secure someone or something with a belt or strap	Please belt the child's seat down and put the child in it. Did you belt down the kids?

belt (somebody) up	to secure someone with a belt, such as a seat belt in a car	I had to belt her up because the seat belt was so complicated. We belted up the kids securely.
belt (somebody) up	to be quiet	She told the students to BELT UP because they were making so much noise.
belt (somebody) up	to fasten your seatbelt	I told the kids to BELT UP before I started the car.

bend (something/somebody) back	to lean or bend backwards	He bent back to pick up the book, and he fell. When she bent back, she ripped something.
bend (something/somebody) back	to curve or arch someone or something backward	We bent the child back a little so we could examine the spider bite. Ouch! Don't bend back my hand! Bend the branch back so we can get a better view.

bend before something	to bend under the pressure of moving air	The trees bent before the wind. Our roses bent gracefully before the breeze.

bend down	lower the top half of your body	I BENT DOWN to pick it up off the floor.
bend down	to curve downward; [for someone] to lean down	Please bend down and pick up the little bits of paper you just dropped. The snow-laden bushes bent down.

bend forward	to lean forward; to curve forward	The tree bent forward in the wind. I bent forward to pick up the pencil.

bend in	to curve or turn inward	The shore bent in about a mile to the west. The side of the shed bent in under the force of the wind.

bend over	lower the top part of your body	I BENT OVER to do my shoes up. Bend over and pick it up yourself!
bend over	[for someone] to bend down at the waist	I bent over and picked up the coin. When he bent over, something ripped.

bend over backwards	do a lot to try to help or please someone	I BENT OVER BACKWARDS for them and they did not even thank me.
bend over backwards	to try very hard lean over backwards (Usage notes: usually used to describe efforts to help or please someone)	We want your business and will bend over backwards to keep it.
bend over backwards	to try very hard to do something, especially to help or please someone else	Banks are bending over backwards to help those in difficulties.
bend over backwards	to work very hard to accomplish something for someone; to go out of one's way (to do something) (for someone)	He will bend over backwards to help you. I bent over backwards for you, and you showed no thanks!

benefit by something	to profit or gain by something	We hope to benefit by the collapse of our competition. We will all benefit from the new tax laws.

bent on something	determined to do something	I believe you are bent on destroying the entire country. I am bent on saving the planet.

bequeath something to somebody	to will something to someone; to leave something to someone	My uncle bequeathed some furniture to me. I will bequeath this watch to my grandson.

beset somebody with something	to surround someone with harassment; to harass someone with something	Please do not beset them with problem after problem. They beset us with requests for money.

besiege something/somebody with something	to attack someone or a group with something	We besieged the enemy with bombs and bullets.
besiege something/somebody with something	to overwhelm someone or something with something	They besieged us with orders for the new book. We besieged the company with complaints.

besmirch something/somebody with something	to dirty or soil someone or someone's reputation with something	Please don't continue to besmirch Alice with that gossip. You have besmirched my reputation with your comments. He besmirched her with vile gossip in order to turn people against her.

bestow something on somebody	to give something to someone; to present something to someone	The mere presence of the queen bestowed wisdom and grace on the court. Fine gifts were bestowed on the visiting prince.

bias somebody against something/somebody	to prejudice someone against someone or something	Please avoid biasing everyone against me. One bad experience biased all of us against that brand of sausage.

bicker (with somebody) (about something/somebody)	to argue with someone about someone or something	Why are you always bickering with her about absolutely nothing? Please don't bicker with us over these small details.

bid (something) for something	to offer an amount of money for something at an auction	I bid a thousand for the painting. I didn't want to bid for it. I wouldn't bid a cent on that rickety old table!

bid something down	to lower the value of something, such as stock, by offering a lower price for it each time it comes up for sale	We bid the price down and then bought all of it. I could see that the traders were bidding down the price, but I didn't want to take the risk.

bid something up	to raise the price of something at an auction by offering higher and higher prices; to increase the value of something, such as shares of stock, by offering a higher price for it each time it comes up for sale	Who is bidding the price up on that painting? Someone bid up the price on each piece at auction and then backed off.

bilk somebody out of something	to get something away from someone by deception	The crooks bilked the old lady out of a fortune. I was bilked out of my life's savings!

bill somebody for something	to ask someone for payment for something in writing	Just bill me for the balance. She billed them for her expenses and then tried to deduct the expenses from her income tax.

billow out	[for a sheet of cloth] to fill with the wind (Especially a ship's sail)	The sail billowed out and we moved forward. Her skirt billowed out when the wind caught it.
billow out	[for something, such as smoke] to burst and flow outward	At the site of the fire, smoke billowed out. Clouds of ash billowed out of the volcano.

bind something/somebody down	to tie or secure someone or something to something	Bind the tarpaulin so it won't get away. We will bind down the patient tightly. They bound the hatch down so it could not be opened.

bind something/somebody together	to tie the parts of something together; to tie a number of things or people together	Can you bind together all three parts? Bind these two bandits together and lead them to jail.

bind something/somebody up (in something)	to tie someone or something up in something	They bound the books up in leather straps. I will bind up the larger sticks in strong cord.

bitch about something/somebody	to complain about someone or something (Use discretion with bitch, a word many consider coarse or vulgar)	You are always bitching about your girlfriend. Stop bitching about your job so much.

bitch of (something/somebody)	a really difficult person or thing (Use discretion with bitch, a word many consider coarse or vulgar)	What a bitch of a day! He is really a bitch of a boss.

bitch somebody off	to make someone angry (Use discretion with bitch, a word many consider coarse or vulgar)	You really bitch me off, do you know that? That foul temper of yours could bitch off anybody.

bitch something/somebody up	to mess someone or something up (Use discretion with bitch, a word many consider coarse or vulgar)	Who bitched these cards up? I never bitch up anything!

blab something around	to gossip something to others; to spread some news or secret	It's true, but don't blab it around. Did you blab around everything I told you to keep to yourself?

blab something out	to speak out freely about something that is a secret	Don't just blab it out! Don't blab out the names of the people who were there!

black out	faint; to pass out; lose consciousness; fall unconscious	When he fell off the horse, he blacked out. He BLACKED OUT and collapsed on the floor. And then she just blacked out. After I fell, I must have blacked out. I think I am going to black out. I blacked out right after the accident.

black something out; black out something	to keep from being broadcast or printed	Tonight's game has been blacked out on local television so you have to buy tickets to see it. The local papers blacked out news of the disaster.
black something out; black out something	to stop delivering or receiving electricity	Everything BLACKED OUT when the power supply failed. The power failure blacked out all of northern Illinois. Suddenly the lights blacked out. The power went dead and everything blacked out from the heat.
black something out; black out something	to cut or turn out the lights or electric power	The lightning strike blacked the entire town out. The manager blacked out the whole building during the emergency to prevent an explosion.
black something out; black out something	to prevent the broadcast of a specific television or radio program in a specific area	Will they black the game out around here? They blacked out the basketball game in this area.

blackmail somebody into something	to force a person to do something by threatening to reveal some secret about the person	Are you trying to blackmail me into doing what you want? They blackmailed me into doing it.

blame somebody/something for something	to hold someone responsible for something; to name someone as the cause of something	Please don't blame Jill for it. She blamed herself for everything that went wrong. He blames his poor English for his grade on the test. The citizens blame the government for the economic problems.

blame something on somebody	to say that something is someone's fault; to place the guilt for something on someone	Don't blame it on me. I blamed it all on someone else. He blamed his grade on his English. The police blamed the explosion on a separatist group.

blanch at something	to cringe at something; to become pale at the thought of something	Jill blanched at the thought of swimming in that cold water. Lily blanched at the sight before her.

blanch with something	to become pale with some emotion, such as anger or fear	He saw the injury and blanched with fear. Lily blanched with anger as Max walked out.

blank out	censor text so that words cannot be read	The email addresses were BLANKED OUT in the documents shown to the court.
blank out	have a temporary memory failure	I was so nervous in the interview that I just BLANKED OUT and couldn't answer their questions properly.
blank something out; blank out something	to erase something, as on a computer screen	Who blanked out the information that was on my screen? Please blank your password out as soon as you type it.
blank something out; blank out something	to forget something, perhaps on purpose; to blot something out of memory	I'm sorry, I just blanked your question out. I blanked out your question. What did you say?

blanket something/somebody with something	to cover someone or something with something	They blanketed the flames with a layer of foam. The children blanketed Jimmy with leaves and pretended he was lost.

blare out	a loud sound or music; to say/sing something very loudly	The music was BLARING OUT and I couldn't get to sleep.

blast away	to be very loud	The radio blasted away with sad country and western songs.
blast away	to strongly criticize or attack with words	People with no sense at all blast away on talk radio all day. The prosecutor blasted away at him without letup.

blast (something) off (something)	leave the ground, spaceship or rocket	The space shuttle BLASTED OFF on schedule yesterday.
blast (something) off (something)	to remove something from something else with a powerful charge, pressure, or force	They blasted the writing off the wall with a stream of sand. We will have to blast the paint off the wall.
blast (something) off (something)	[for a space vehicle] to take off and head toward a destination	The rocket blasted off for the moon. Will it blast off on time?
blast (something) off (something)	[for someone] to leave for a destination quickly	Ann blasted off for the library so she could study. I've got to blast off. It's late.

blaze away (at something/somebody)	[for gunfire] to fire repeatedly (continually) at someone or something	The shooters BLAZED AWAY at the pheasants. The guns blazed away at the oncoming ducks. The cowboy blazed away at his opponent in the gunfight.

blaze down (on something/somebody)	[for the sun or other hot light] to burn from above onto someone or something	The sun blazed down on the people on the beach. The stage lights blazed down on the set while the actors rehearsed.

blaze up	[for flames] to expand upward suddenly	The fire blazed up and warmed all of us. As the fire blazed up, we moved away from the fireplace.
blaze up	[for trouble, especially violent trouble] to erupt suddenly	The battle blazed up again, and the fighting started to become fierce. As the battle blazed up, the cowards fled into the hills.

blaze with something	to burn with some quality, such as great heat or sound	The sun blazed with unbelievable heat. The fire blazed with much crackling.

bleach something out	to remove the color or stain from something	Wally bleached his jeans out so they looked more stylish. Can you bleach out this stain?

bleed for somebody/something	to feel the emotional pain that someone else is feeling; to sympathize or empathize with someone; to suffer for someone or something	I just bled for him when I heard his sad story. We bled for her as she related her recent woes. My father said that when he was in college he was a hopeless liberal who bled for causes.

bleed from something	for blood to emerge from a wound or other source	He was bleeding from a number of wounds. He bled from his mouth and nose.

bleed somebody/something dry	something that you say which means that all the people in a particular place were very sad about what they had seen or heard and many of them were crying	She began to talk about her son who had died and by the end of her speech there wasn't a dry eye in the house.
bleed somebody/something dry	to use up everything someone or something has available	The city is losing money at a rate that eventually will bleed it dry. I'm worried that the medical bills will bleed my parents dry.

bleep something out	to replace a word or phrase in a radio or television broadcast with some sort of covering tone (This is sometimes done to prevent a taboo word or other information from being broadcast)	He tried to say the word on television, but they bleeped it out. They tried to bleep out the whole sentence.

blend (something) into (something)	to mix something evenly into something else	We should blend the strawberry jam into the peanut butter slowly. You should blend in some more jam.

blend in (to something)	to combine nicely with something; to mix well with something	The oil won't blend into the water very well. It simply won't blend in.

blend something together (with something)	to mix something evenly with something else	Blend the egg together with the cream. Blend the ingredients together and pour them into a baking pan.

bless something/somebody with something	[for God or fate] to give someone or something a valuable gift	God has blessed us with a bountiful harvest. Nature blessed the morning with a gentle rain.

blind somebody to something	to prevent someone from seeing or understanding something	The king blinded his subjects to what was going on by controlling what appeared in the newspapers. The lies and confusion blinded Jill to what was happening. She blinded herself to all his faults.

blink at something	to open and close the eyelids quickly, one or more times	I blinked at the bright light and finally had to close my eyes. Don't blink at me while I am trying to take your picture.
blink at something	to overlook something, such as a mistake (As if one had blinked one's eyes rather than seeing the error)	I just can't blink at that kind of behavior. We can't blink at what evil you did.

bliss out	be extremely relaxed and happy	I BLISSED OUT on the beach all week.

blitz somebody out	to shock or disorient someone	The accident blitzed her out for a moment. The second act blitzed out the audience and thrilled them to pieces.

block (something/somebody) in (somewhere)	to place an obstacle that prevents someone or something from getting out of something	I can't get out of my parking space. Someone blocked me in my space. Don't block in any of the other cars in the garage. I could not drive here this morning because someone had BLOCKED me IN.
block (something/somebody) in (somewhere)	shade or fill in	He BLOCKED IN the events in his calendar.

block off (something); block (something) off	obstruct an exit to prevent people from leaving	The police BLOCKED OFF the road after the murder.
block off (something); block (something) off	separate using a barrier.	The area was blocked off during the demonstration.
block off (something); block (something) off	to prevent movement through something by putting up a barrier; to close a passageway	Sam blocked the corridor off with a row of chairs. He used some chairs to block off the hallway.

block (something) out; block out (something)	stop light from entering or leaving	The trees BLOCK the sun OUT most of the day.
block (something) out; block out (something)	try not thinking about or feeling something because it is upsetting or painful	It was so unpleasant that I try to BLOCK it OUT- otherwise, I would just be angry all the time.
block (something) out; block out (something)	to lay something out carefully; to map out the details of something	She blocked it out for us, so we could understand. Let me block out this project for you right now.
block (something) out; block out (something)	to obscure a clear view of something	The trees blocked the sun out. The bushes blocked out my view of the car that was approaching.
block (something) out; block out (something)	to ignore something (Related vocabulary: blot out something)	After a while you become good at forcing yourself to block out the pain.
block (something) out; block out (something)	to make time available	When was the last time you blocked out two hours to do whatever you felt like doing?

block (something/somebody) up	to constipate someone	That food always blocks me up. He blocked himself up by eating something he shouldn't. That vile stuff would block up anybody!
block (something/somebody) up	to obstruct something; to stop the flow within a channel	The heaps of debris blocked the channel up. The leaves blocked up the drain.
block (something/somebody) up	fill a space so that nothing can pass	The pipe is BLOCKED UP and no water gets through.

blossom forth	[for a plant] to burst into flower	All the trees blossomed forth at the same time. Each spring my tulips blossom forth in all their glory.
blossom forth	[for someone or a concept] to develop or grow quickly	A wonderful idea blossomed forth and caught on quickly. That summer she suddenly blossomed forth into a young woman.

blossom into something	[for a plant] to develop into full bloom	The bush blossomed into beautiful red roses. Imagine this brown old bulb blossoming into a lovely flower.
blossom into something	[for someone or a concept] to develop into something	She blossomed into a lovely young lady. The idea blossomed into a huge real estate development.

blossom out	[for a plant or tree] to become covered with flowers	The apple tree blossomed out for the last time.
blossom out	[for someone or a concept] to develop fully, physically and intellectually	She blossomed out in her studies and her excellent grades showed it. In her last year in school, she blossomed out.

blot out something; blot something/somebody out	to do something which spoils someone's opinion of you	She blotted her copybook by arriving late to a meeting.
blot out something; blot something/somebody out	to make something stop upsetting you	I twist the pillow over my head to blot out the horrible sounds. She closed her eyes, trying to blot out the memory of the day's events.
blot out something; blot something/somebody out	to kill someone (Originally underworld slang)	Sorry, chum, we got orders to blot you out. The gang blotted out the only living witness before the trial.
blot out something; blot something/somebody out	to make something invisible by covering it (See also blot someone or something out)	Don't blot the name out on the application form. Who blotted out the name on this form?
blot out something; blot something/somebody out	to forget someone or something by covering up memories or by trying to forget	I try to blot those bad thoughts out. I tried to blot out those unhappy days.

blow (somebody) away	To impress someone greatly	We were blown away by her performance.
blow (somebody) away	beat rivals or competitors by a large margin	Their new product has BLOWN all the others AWAY.
blow (somebody) away	impress greatly	Her first novel BLEW me AWAY.
blow (somebody) away	kill	He grabbed a gun and BLEW the police officer AWAY.
blow (somebody) away	when the wind moves something from a place	The flag BLEW AWAY in the storm; we will have to buy a new one.

blow down	when the wind forces something to fall	A tree was BLOWN DOWN in the storm.

blow (something/somebody) off	ignore, not do something	I BLEW the homework OFF and did badly.
blow (something/somebody) off	To say no to someone (This term has a somewhat negative connotation)	We invited them for dinner last weekend, but they just blew us off.
blow (something/somebody) off	not keep an appointment	We were going to meet last night, but she BLEW me OFF at the last minute.

blow out	extinguish candles, matches, etc.	She BLEW the candles OUT on her birthday cake.

blow over	when a scandal gets forgotten	The scandal BLEW OVER within a fortnight when the press found someone else to attack.
blow over	When speaking about a scandal, etc. - To stop becoming important	This scandal won't blow over any time soon.

blow up	be destroyed by an explosion	The car blew up but luckily there was nobody in it. The terrorists said the bomb would blow up at 9 o'clock. The car blew up after the gasoline caught fire. Thankfully no one was inside. The bomb might have blown up.

bluff somebody into something	to mislead or deceive someone into doing something	Are you trying to bluff me into giving up without a fight? I won't be bluffed into revealing the whereabouts of the safe.

bluff somebody out (of something)	to get something away from someone through deception	We bluffed her out of her share of the pie. I bluffed Liz out of her rightful turn to drive.

blurt something out (at somebody)	to say something to someone without thinking (Usually to say something that should not be said)	I was really angry when he BLURTED OUT the secret. It was a secret. Why did you blurt it out? Why did you blurt out our hiding place?

board (somebody) out	to send someone or an animal away to live, temporarily (Usually said of a school-age child or a pet)	They decided to board Billy out. They boarded out the dog while they were on vacation.

board something up	to enclose or seal a building or part of a building with boards or panels	We will have to board this house up if we can't sell it. Should I board up the house while I am away that season?

board with somebody	to live with someone temporarily, usually while paying to do so	I will board with my aunt when I go to school in Adamsville. I do not wish to board with relatives.

boast about something/somebody	to speak highly about someone or something that one is proud of	I just have to boast about my grandchildren. Do you mind? Is he boasting about his car again? I don't like to boast of what I did.

bode somehow for something/somebody	to foretell or portend fortune or misfortune for someone or something (Typically with ill or well)	Things do not bode well for the stock market. Things do not bode well for your future at this job.

bog down (somebody/something)	slow make progress	Yasini got BOGGED DOWN in his research and didn't finish the project in time.
bog down (somebody/something)	to become encumbered and slow (As if one were walking through a bog and getting stuck in the mud; Often preceded by a form of get)	The process bogged down and almost stopped. The truck got bogged down in the mud soon after it started.
bog down (somebody/something)	to cause someone or something to stop developing or moving forward	The film bogs down after a really great beginning.

bog in	eat enthusiastically	We were starving and BOGGED IN when the food was served.

bog into	eat something enthusiastically	They BOGGED INTO the lunch.

bog off	get lost	He lost his temper and told her to BOG OFF.

boil (something) down; boil down something	to condense or thicken something, such as a liquid	I have to boil this gravy down for a while before I can serve it. You boil down the sauce and I'll set the table.
boil (something) down; boil down something	to reduce something to its most basic or important parts	If we could boil this problem down to its essentials, we might be able to solve it. We don't have time to boil down this matter. This is too urgent. The report is so long, I BOILED it DOWN into a two-page summary. I am supposed to boil down this ten-page report to half a page. The whole question boils down to how will we pay for this?
boil (something) down; boil down something	if a situation or feeling is on the boil, it is very strong or active	The corruption scandal is being kept on the boil by a series of new revelations.

boil down to (something)	be summarized as	The problem boils down to a lack of money.
boil down to (something)	To ammount to	It all BOILS DOWN TO money at the end of the day. What it boils down to is that I'm just not very interested.
boil down to (something)	[for a liquid] to be condensed to something by boiling	Boil this mixture down to about half of what it was.
boil down to (something)	[for a complex situation] to be reduced to its essentials	It boils down to the question of who is going to win. It boils down to a very minor matter.

boil over	when a hot liquid spills out of a container	I left the milk on the cooker and it BOILED OVER.
boil over	[for a liquid] to overflow while being boiled	The sauce boiled over and dripped onto the stove. Don't let the stew boil over!
boil over	when people lose their tempers and things get nasty	The tension had been building up and it BOILED OVER in the meeting. Anger boiled over when the police ordered the protesters to leave.
boil over	[for someone] to erupt in great anger	The boss boiled over with anger. Things got out of hand and the crowd's passions boiled over.

boil something away	to remove a volatile chemical from a solution by boiling	Boil the alcohol away or the sauce will be ruined. You should boil away some of the liquid.
boil something away	to boil a liquid until it is gone altogether	She left the kettle on and boiled the water away. Boil away some of that water.

boil something out of something	to remove something from something by boiling	I boiled the wax out of the cloth. You can boil out the stain.

boil (something) up	cook or heat something to boiling point	I BOILED UP some water for a cup of coffee. She boiled some beans up for dinner. She boiled up some potatoes.
boil (something) up	feel a negative emotion strongly	The anger BOILED UP in me when I saw what they had done.

boil with something	to show the heat or intensity of one's anger	You could see that she was just boiling with anger. Tom was boiling with rage when we got there.

bolster somebody/something up	to give someone emotional support and encouragement	We bolstered her up the best we could, but she was still unhappy. I don't mind bolstering up people who are depressed.
bolster somebody/something up	to give added support to something	The carpenter bolstered the shelf up with a nail or two. I had to bolster up the door or it would have fallen in.

bolt out (of somewhere)	to run out of some place very quickly	Frank bolted out of the room in a flash. I bolted out after him.

bolt something down	to eat something too rapidly	Don't bolt your food down. She bolted down her dinner and ran out to play.
bolt something down	to fasten something down securely with bolts	Did anyone bolt the washing machine down? Someone should bolt down this washing machine.

bomb out (of something)	to flunk out of or fail at something, especially school or a job	She was afraid she would bomb out of school. Her brother bombed out the year before.

bomb somebody/something out	to cause people to flee by bombing their homes and towns	The planes bombed the villagers out. The attack bombed out everyone for miles around.
bomb somebody/something out	to destroy a place by bombing	I hope they don't bomb the village out. The planes bombed out the factory.

bombard somebody/something with something	to ask someone many questions, one after another	The press bombarded the president with questions. The company spokesperson was bombarded with leading questions.
bombard somebody/something with something	to continually send someone something, esp	to inform or influence them Every day it seems as if we are bombarded with e-mail messages warning of computer viruses. Stuart bombarded her with flowers, phone calls, and faxes just to get her to say she would go out for dinner with him.
bombard somebody/something with something	to cast or shoot something at someone or something	The boys bombarded their friends with snowballs. Gerald bombarded his friends with criticism.

bone up on	study hard	I need to BONE UP ON my French grammar for the test.

book in/into	check in at a hotel	WE took a taxi from the airport to the hotel and BOOKED IN. We BOOKED INTO the first hotel we could find.
book in/into	make a reservation in advance	I'll BOOK us IN at the Intercontinental. I've BOOKED us INTO a hotel in the centre of town for three nights.

book up	reserve	The flight's fully BOOKED UP. I'll have to go the following day.

boom (something) out	[for a loud sound] to sound out like thunder	His voice boomed out such that everyone could hear. An explosion boomed out and frightened us all.
boom (something) out	[for someone] to say something very loud; to shout	Will someone with a loud voice boom the names out? The announcer boomed out the names of the players.

boost somebody up	to give someone a helpful lift up to something	She boosted me up so I could get into the window. They boosted up the child for a better view.

boot somebody/something out	to force someone or something to leave some place	We booted out the people who didn't belong there. The doorman booted the kid out.
boot somebody/something out	to send or remove someone or an animal from a place forcefully, often by kicking	I kicked the cat out and then went to bed. Tom kicked out the dog.

boot (something) up	[of a computer] to begin operating; to start up one's computer by loading an operating system or program	He BOOTED UP the computer and started work. Try to boot up again and see what happens. I have eight computers in my office and each one of them boots up differently.

booze (it) up	to drink heavily; to drink to get drunk	She wanted to get home and booze it up by herself. He boozes it up every Friday after work. Those guys are always boozing up. Stop boozing up and go home.

border on (something)	to be similar in quality or character (Usage notes: usually used about negative qualities)	What he did was BORDERING ON betrayal. I thought the author's criticism bordered on rudeness. His behavior borders on psychotic.
border on (something)	[for some activity or idea] to be very similar to something else (Not usually physical objects; Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	This notion of yours borders upon mutiny! That plan borders on insanity.
border on (something)	[for something] to touch upon a boundary (Upon is more formal and less commonly used than on)	Portugal BORDERS ON Spain. Our property borders on the lakeshore. The farm borders upon the railroad tracks.

bore through somebody/something	[for someone's gaze] to seem to penetrate the person being gazed or stared at	Her stare bored right through me.
bore through somebody/something	to pierce or drill through something	The drill bit could not bore through the steel plate.

borrow (something) from (somebody)	to steal something	The bank robber borrowed a car to drive out of state. I discovered that my office mate had been borrowing money out of my wallet when I wasn't looking. Shakespeare borrowed his plots from other writers.
borrow (something) from (somebody)	to request and receive the use of something from someone	Can I borrow a hammer from you? Sorry, this hammer was borrowed from my father. I borrowed some paper from my roommate.

boss about	use excessive authority to control people	She BOSSES everyone ABOUT.

boss (somebody) around	use excessive authority to control people	He BOSSES everyone AROUND. I'm tired of her bossing me around! States and communities have complained that they're being bossed around by Washington.
boss (somebody) around	to give orders to someone; to keep telling someone what to do	Stop bossing me around. I'm not your employee. Captain Smith bosses around the whole crew. That's his job.

botch up	ruin or spoil something	I BOTCHED UP the whole project and it had to be cancelled.

bother about something	to care about something; to take the trouble to deal with something	Please don't bother about this mess. I'll clean it up. Don't bother about it.

bother (somebody) with something/somebody	to annoy someone with someone or something; to worry someone about someone or something (Either a physical annoyance or a mental annoyance)	Don't bother me with that! Don't bother yourself about the bill. I'll pay it.
bother (somebody) with something/somebody	to take the time or trouble to deal with someone or something (Usually negative)	Please don't bother with Jill. She can take care of herself. Don't bother me with your problems.

bottle away	store up	He kept his feelings BOTTLED AWAY.

bottle out	lack courage to do something	She was going to tell her boss exactly what she thought, but BOTTLED OUT in the end.

bottle up	not express your feelings	She BOTTLED UP her feelings even though she was furious with them and kept quiet.

bottom out	pass the lowest point and start rising	The recession BOTTOMED OUT and the economy is recovering well.

bounce along	[for someone] to move along happily/bouncing (As might be done by a ball)	He was so happy that he just bounced along. He stopped bouncing along when he saw all the work he had to do. The ball bounced along and finally came to rest. The beach ball sort of bounced along until it came to the water.

bounce back (from something)	[for someone] to recover after a disability, illness, blow, or defeat (See also rebound from something)	She bounced back from her illness quickly. I bounced back in just a few days after the operation.
bounce back	[for something] to rebound; to return bouncing from where it had been	The ball bounced back from the wall. A rubber ball always bounces back.
bounce back (from something)	to return to a good condition	The economy is BOUNCING BACK from the recession.

bounce something back and forth	to bat, toss, or throw something alternately between two people (Usually a ball)	The two guys bounced the ball back and forth. John and Timmy bounced it back and forth.
bounce something back and forth	to discuss an idea back and forth among a group of people	Let's bounce these ideas back and forth awhile and see what we come up with. The idea was bounced back and forth for about an hour.

bounce into	force someone	They have BOUNCED the government INTO calling an early election.

bounce (something) off (of something/somebody)	and bounce something off; to try an idea or concept out on someone or a group (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	They BOUNCED ideas OFF each other in a brainstorming session. Let me bounce off this idea, if I may. Can I bounce something off of you people, while you're here?
bounce (something) off (of something/somebody)	to make something rebound off someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The ball bounced off the wall and struck a lamp. It hit the wall and bounced off. She bounced the ball off the wall, turned, and tossed it to Wally. She bounced the ball off of Harry, into the wastebasket.

bounce out (of something)	to rebound out of or away from something	The ball bounced out of the corner into my hands. The ball bounced out of the box it had fallen into.

bounce something around (with somebody)	to discuss something with a number of people; to move an idea from person to person like a ball	I need to bounce this around with my family. I need to bounce around something with you.

bound for	somewhere headed for a specific goal or destination	Bill accidentally got on a bus bound for Miami. Our baseball team is bound for glory.

bound to something	certain to do something; destined to do something	Jill's bound to do a good job. We are bound to tell the truth.

bound up in something	to be completely involved in or connected with something	These guys' lives are completely bound up in baseball.

bound up with something/somebody	to be connected to something else	The secretary pointed out that US security is absolutely bound up with the security of Europe.
bound up with something/somebody	deeply concerned or involved with someone or something	He's so bound up with his work, he has time for nothing else. Andrew is bound up with his girlfriend and has time for no one else.

bow before something/somebody	to bend or curtsy in respect to someone or something	I will not bow before any king or queen. Henry insisted that I bow before him.
bow before something/somebody	to submit to someone or something; to surrender to someone or something	Our country will never bow before a dictator's demands. We will not bow before such a corrupt politician.

bow down (to somebody/something)	to submit to someone or something; to yield sovereignty to someone or something	I will not bow down to you, you dictator! We will never bow to a foreign prince.
bow down (to somebody/something)	to obey someone or something; to bend or curtsy to someone or something	The old man expects me to bow down to him, but I won't do it. Do you expect me to bow down or something when you enter? He bowed down low to the duchess. She faced forward and bowed to the altar.

bow out (of something)	to not to do something you said you would do	An accident forced Billy to bow out of the show just before the first performance.
bow out (of something)	to retire or resign as something	It's time to bow out as mayor. I think I will bow out and leave this job to someone else.

bow to something	to yield to someone's demands; to agree to do something that someone has requested	In the end, they had to bow to our demands. We refused to bow to their demands that we abandon the project.
bow to something	to accept something without really wanting to	The government says it will not bow to pressure to allow untested drugs to be used.

bowl over	surprise someone greatly	I was BOWLED OVER by the news. Her reaction simply bowled me over.

box (something/somebody) in	prevent something from moving, especially vehicles	I was BOXED IN by the bus and could not change lane.
box (something/somebody) in	to put someone into a bind; to reduce the number of someone's alternatives	I don't want to box you in, but you are running out of options. I want to box in the whole staff, so they'll have to do it my way.
box (something/somebody) in	to trap or confine someone or something	He boxed her in so she could not get away from him. They tried to box in the animals, but they needed more space. Don't try to box me in.

box (something/somebody) up	to confine someone in a small area	Please don't box me up in that little office. The boss boxed up Fred in a tiny office. Why the president boxes himself up in such a little office is beyond me.
box (something/somebody) up	to place something in a box	Please box the books up and put them into the trunk of the car. Please box up four of these for me.
box (something/somebody) up	pack things in boxes to move them	At the end of term, I BOXED my books UP and sent them home.

to be boxed (up)	to be in jail	I committed the crime, and I was boxed for a long time for it. Pat was boxed up for two days till we got bond money.
to be boxed (up)	to be intoxicated	I am way boxed, and I feel sick. She got boxed up on gin.

to be boxed in	to be in a bind; having few alternatives	I really feel boxed in around here. I got him boxed in. He'll have to do it our way.

brag about something/somebody	to boast about someone or something; to talk proudly about someone or something	He bragged about how selfish he was. Jill brags a lot about her kids.

brainwash somebody with something	to drive specific knowledge or propaganda into someone's brain, by constant repetition and psychological conditioning	The dictator brainwashed his people with lie after lie. You have brainwashed yourself with your own propaganda.

branch off (from something)	to separate off from something; to divide away from something	A small stream branched off from the main channel. An irrigation ditch branched off here and there.

branch out (into something)	move into a different area of business, etc.	The supermarkets have BRANCHED OUT into banking.
branch out (into something)	to become involved in a wider range of activities	Women are branching out into leadership roles at many levels in the army.
branch out (into something)	to expand away from something; to diversify away from narrower interests and go into new areas	The speaker branched out from her prepared remarks. The topic was very broad, and she was free to branch out. I have decided to branch out into some new projects. Business was very good, so I decided to branch out.
branch out (into something)	To explore new things, move into different areas (when speaking about a business, etc.)	We were selling postcards, but we want to branch out into making envelopes.
branch out (into something)	[for a branch] to grow out of a branch or trunk (Having to do with plants and trees)	A twig branched out of the main limb and grew straight up. The bush branched out from the base.

brave something out	to endure something; to put up with something courageously	I don't know if all the men can brave the attack out. The soldiers braved out the attack.

break (up) (into something)	to divide into smaller parts	The glass broke up into a thousand pieces. It hit the floor and broke up, flinging bits everywhere.

break away; break free; break loose	escape from captivity	A few horses broke away from the paddock. At last, the hostage could break away from his captors.
break away; break free; break loose	leave an organization, usually to form a new one	The SDP BROKE AWAY from the Labor Party.

break down	end negotiations unsuccessfully	The talks between management and the unions BROKE DOWN acrimoniously.
break down	get upset	The woman broke down when the police told her that her son had died.
break down	go out of order; cease to function; have a physical or mental collapse	My car's BROKEN DOWN, so I came by taxi. John's car broke down on the way to the airport.
break down	lose control of one's emotions; start crying	The parents broke down when they heard the bad news. He BROKE DOWN in tears.

break even	if a person or a business breaks even, they do not make or lose any money from their business	After a bad year in 1995, the company just about broke even in 1996.
break even	to earn as much money as you spent; for income to equal expenses (This implies that money was not made or lost)	Some of the books we publish do not sell enough copies to break even. Unfortunately, my business just managed to break even last year. I made a bad investment, but I broke even.

break in	force entry to a building	Somebody broke in last night and stole our stereo.
break in	go into a building to steal something	The burglars BROKE IN and stole the TV and video.
break in	interrupt something	I'm sorry to BREAK IN on your conversation, but there's a problem. The TV station broke in to report the news of the president's death.

break into (something)	enter by force	The burglars broke into the house around midnight. The firemen had to break into the room to rescue the children.

break something in	train a horse to be ridden	It took ages to BREAK the horse IN.
break something in	wear something a few times so that it doesn't look/feel new	I need to break these shoes in before we run next week.

break off	break a piece from something	She BROKE OFF a square of chocolate and gave it to her dog.
break off	discontinue (therapy, relationship)	She BROKE OFF their engagement when she found out that he'd been unfaithful.

break out (of)	escape (from prison, etc.)	Three dangerous Category A prisoners BROKE OUT OF Wands worth Prison last night. The prisoners broke out of jail when the guards weren't looking.
break out (of)	start suddenly	Rioting broke out as a result of the strike.

break out in something	develop a skin condition	I broke out in a rash after our camping trip.

break something down	divide into smaller parts	Our teacher broke the final project down into three separate parts.

break through	pass a barrier or obstacle	The crowd BROKE THROUGH the police barriers and attacked the hunters.

break up	break into many pieces	The plate BROKE UP when he dropped it on the floor.
break up	close an educational institution for the holidays	Schools BREAK UP at the end of June for the summer holidays.
break up	come to an end (marriage, relationship, etc.)	They had been going out for a couple of years before they BROKE UP. After her marriage broke up, Emma went to live in London. Fiona and Colin are no longer together. They broke up last week.
break up	start laughing (informal)	The kids just broke up as soon as the clown started talking.
break up	To disperse or scatter	The police had a hard time breaking up the crowd at the demonstration.

breathe (up)on something/somebody	to exhale on someone or something (Upon is more formal and less commonly used than on)	Please don't breathe upon the food. Don't breathe on me!

breathe (something) in	to inhale; to take air into the lungs	Now, relax and breathe in. Breathe out. Breathe in deeply; enjoy the summer air.
breathe (something) in	to take something into the lungs, such as air, medicinal vapors, gas, etc.	Breathe the vapor in slowly. It will help your cold. Breathe in that fresh air!

breathe (something) into something	to exhale into something; to expel one's breath into something	I was told to breathe into a tube that was connected to a machine of some type.
breathe (something) into something	to revive something; to introduce something new or positive into a situation	Her positive attitude breathed new life into the company. The project breathed a new spirit into the firm.

breathe something (of something) (to somebody)	to tell something to someone (Usually in the negative)	Don't breathe a word of this to anyone! I won't breathe a word!

breathe (something) out	to exhale something	Now, breathe out, then breathe in. The doctor told me to breathe out slowly. At last, he breathed his last breath out, and that was the end. Breathe out your breath slowly.

breeze along	move easily and quickly	The film BREEZES ALONG for the first hour then becomes rather dull and slow.
breeze along	to travel along casually, rapidly, and happily; to go through life in a casual and carefree manner	Kristine was just breezing along the road when she ran off onto the shoulder. We just breezed along the highway, barely paying attention to what we were doing. Don't just breeze along through life!

breeze away	to leave quickly or abruptly	She said nothing more. She just breezed away. I breezed away without stopping to say good-bye.

breeze in; breeze into somewhere	to enter a place quickly, in a happy and carefree manner	He BREEZED IN and started shouting at us. He BREEZED INTO the room and switched the TV on. She breezed into the conference room and sat down at the head of the table. Jerry breezed in and said hello.

breeze off; breeze out (of somewhere)	to leave quickly or abruptly	Don't just breeze off! Stay and talk. Lily breezed off in a huffy manner.
breeze off; breeze out (of somewhere)	to leave a place quickly	She was here for a moment and then suddenly breezed out. She breezed out of the room in an instant.

breeze through (something)	to complete some task rapidly and easily	She BREEZED THROUGH her exams. I breezed through my calculus assignment in no time at all. It was not hard. I just breezed through. Lisa breezed through her homework, then started practicing for the play.
breeze through (something)	to move through a place quickly	They breezed through every little town without stopping. We didn't stop. We just breezed through. Folks living close to the border could breeze through customs in those days.

brew (something) up	to brew something, as in making coffee or tea	Can somebody brew some coffee up? Let me brew up a pot of tea, and then we'll talk.
brew (something) up	to cause something to happen; to foment something	I could see that they were brewing some kind of trouble up. Don't brew up any trouble!
brew (something) up	[for something] to begin to build and grow (Typically said of a storm)	A bad storm is brewing up in the west. Something serious is brewing up in the western sky.

bribe somebody into something	to pay money to get someone to do something	You can't bribe me into doing anything! Max bribed Lily into leaving early.

brick something up	to fill up an opening with bricks	He bricked the doorway up. Why did he brick up the opening?

bridge over something	to make a bridge or passage over something	They bridged over each of the streams as they came to them. I think we can bridge over this little river in a few days if we work hard.

bridle at something/somebody	to show that one is offended by someone or something	She bridled at the suggestion that she should go. Tony bridled at Max. Max was going to have to be dealt with.

brief somebody about something/somebody	to tell someone a summary with the essential details about someone or something	We need to brief the president about the latest event. I have to brief Michael on the new procedures at work.

brighten up	become happier	He BRIGHTENED UP when he heard the news.
brighten up	to become brighter; to lighten, especially with sunshine	The sky is brightening up a little. When the morning sky brightens up just a little, the birds begin to sing.
brighten up	to become better (most often used in the phrase "Things will brighten up"); improve (weather)	The day started cloudy but BRIGHTENED UP in the afternoon.
brighten up	make something more attractive or pleasant	We tried to BRIGHTEN the place UP by painting it.

brim over (with something)	to overflow with something	The basket was brimming over with flowers. I was brimming with confidence after my recent success.

brimming with something	full of some kind of happy behavior	The volunteer workers were brimming with goodwill. The smiling children were brimming with joy.

bring about	make something happen; cause to happen	The changes to the law were BROUGHT ABOUT by the government because so many people were ignoring the old one.

bring along (something)	bring someone or something to certain place	You can BRING your friends ALONG if you like.
bring along (something)	help someone improve	Her coach has BROUGHT her ALONG a lot in the last six months. This year has brought along some significant changes.

bring something/somebody around	bring something with you when you visit	He BROUGHT some books AROUND when he came last night.
bring something/somebody around	get someone talking about something	He did not want to discuss the details, but I managed to BRING him AROUND and he told me everything.
bring something/somebody around	persuade or convince someone	It took me ages to BRING him AROUND to my point of view.

bring (something) back	cause someone to remember	Visiting my old school BROUGHT BACK memories of when I was a pupil there.
bring (something) back	return	He took the calculator home yesterday and hasn't BROUGHT it BACK yet.

bring down	make a government fall	The vote of no-confidence BROUGHT the government DOWN. The president was brought down by this scandal.
bring down	make something cheaper	The improvements in technology have BROUGHT the prices of computers DOWN considerably in recent months.

bring forth	give birth to; make something happen	The report has BROUGHT FORTH a lot of criticism of the policy.
bring forth	produce something, make it known or visible	She BROUGHT FORTH a surprising result. The prosecution BROUGHT FORTH a lot of evidence against him.
bring forth	remove something from where it is kept or hidden	She BROUGHT FORTH the diary and showed it to us.

bring forward	draw attention to something; make something happen earlier than originally planned	The meeting has been BROUGHT FORWARD to this Friday instead of next week because some people couldn't make it then.

bring in	earn	The job BRINGS IN two thousand dollars a month.

bring on	cause something to happen, appear or speed up the process	Getting wet in the rain yesterday BROUGHT ON my cold.

bring out	release or publish	The band is BRINGING OUT a new CD in the autumn.

bring out in	cause a health problem or reaction	It was the lobster that BROUGHT me OUT in this rash all over my body.

bring round	persuade; cause to recover consciousness; make someone wake up from unconsciousness or an anesthetic	The doctors BROUGHT him ROUND a few hours after the operation.

bring somebody down	make unhappy	This sad music is bringing me down.

bring somebody up	raise a child	My grandparents brought me up after my parents died.

bring something/somebody up-to-date (on something/somebody)	to inform someone of the latest information about something	Aides brought the governor up to date on the negotiations. Let me bring you up-to-date on what is happening in the village. Please bring me up-to-date.
bring something/somebody up to date (on something/somebody)	to change something to include the latest information or developments	He brought the book up to date by adding a new section on environmental policies.

bring up (something/somebody); bring (something/somebody) up	mention	They didn't BRING the subject UP at the meeting. Don't bring up his relationship with his brother - he's very sensitive about that.
bring up (something/somebody); bring (something/somebody) up	raise/rear/educate a child	My parents BROUGHT me UP strictly. She stopped working in order to bring up her children. He was born in Houston, but he was brought up in Los Angeles.
bring up (something/somebody); bring (something/somebody) up	start talking about a subject	My mother walks out of the room when my father brings up sports.
bring up (something/somebody); bring (something/somebody) up	vomit	He drank so much that he brought his dinner up in the toilet.

bristle at something	to show sudden anger or other negative response to something (Alludes to a dog or cat raising the hair on its back in anger or as a threat)	She bristled at the suggestion. I knew Lily would bristle at the appearance of Max.

broach something with somebody	to mention something to someone; to bring up an idea to someone	I hate to be the one to have to broach this to you, but your trousers are torn. This delicate matter must be broached with Mr. Rogers.

broaden (something) out	to become wider; to expand	The river broadened out and became deeper. The road broadens out here.
broaden (something) out	to make something wider; to expand something	Now, broaden this part out a little, so it looks like a cloud, not a painted pillow. Broaden out the river in your painting so it looks very wide. The photographic view of the valley can be broadened out by using a different lens.

brood about something/somebody	to fret or be depressed about someone or something	Please don't brood about Albert. He is no good for you. There's no need to brood on Jeff. He can take care of himself.

browbeat somebody into something	to bully or intimidate someone into something	It won't do any good to try to browbeat me into it. I was browbeaten into doing it once. I refuse to do it again.

brown out	[for the electricity] to diminish in power and dim the lights, causing a brownout (Something less than a blackout, when there is no power)	The power kept browning out. The lights started to brown out, and I thought maybe there was a power shortage.

brown somebody off	to make someone angry (See also browned (off))	You really brown me off!

browse among something	[for an animal] to wander about among plants and trees, selecting and eating some	The deer were browsing among the vegetables in my garden. The cows were browsing among the grasses in the field.
browse among something	[for someone] to look at or survey different items of reading material	I browsed among the books on the rack until I found what I wanted. I browsed among the books for something suitable.

browse on something	[for an animal] to feed on some kind of plant material	The deer browsed on the tender shoots in my garden. The rabbit browsed on my carrots.

browse over something	[for someone] to glance through written or printed material quickly or curiously	Why don't you browse over this and call me about it in the morning? I want to browse through this magazine quickly. When it has been browsed through by everyone, throw it away.

bruit something about	to spread a rumor around; to gossip something around	You really shouldn't bruit that incident about, you know. The story was bruited about all over the office.

brush (up) against something/somebody	to touch someone or something lightly in passing	I brushed up against the freshly painted wall as I passed. I guess I brushed against Walter as I walked by.

brush aside somebody/something; brush something/somebody aside	to not give someone or something serious consideration	I saw this happen, and you can't just call me crazy and brush me aside. Her friends worried that she might be arrested, but Nancy confidently brushed aside their concerns.
brush aside somebody/something; brush something/somebody aside	to cast someone or something away; to rid oneself of someone or something; to ignore or dismiss someone or something	You must not brush this matter aside. The clerk brushed aside the old man and moved on to the next person in line.
brush aside somebody/something; brush something/somebody aside	to push or shove someone or something out of the way	Don't just brush me aside. I almost fell over. I brushed aside the branch, not realizing it was poison ivy.

brush by something/somebody	to push quickly past someone or something	She brushed by the little group of people standing there talking. I brushed by the plant, knocking it over.

brush (something/somebody) off (something/somebody)	to ignore, pay little attention	The minister BRUSHED OFF the criticism. He brushed off every criticism.
brush (something/somebody) off (something/somebody)	to not accept someone or something as being important	When she told me my project would be a better television film than a feature film, I thought she was brushing me off. But the prime minister brushed off that criticism, saying it was just talk.
brush (something/somebody) off (something/somebody)	to reject someone; to dismiss someone (As if someone were mere lint)	He brushed her off, telling her she had no appointment. He brushed off Mrs. Franklin, who was only trying to be nice to him.
brush (something/somebody) off (something/somebody)	to remove something, such as dust or lint, from someone by brushing	The bathroom attendant brushed Mr. Harris off and was rewarded with a small tip. The porter had never brushed off such a miserly man before. I brushed a little lint off her collar. I brushed off the lint that was on her collar.

brush over something/somebody	to deal lightly with an important person or matter; to just barely mention someone or something	I want to hear more. You only brushed over the part I was interested in. You only brushed over the bit about your girlfriend. Tell us more about her.

brush something away (from something)	to remove something from something by brushing; to get dirt or crumbs off something by brushing	He brushed a bit of lint away from Tom's collar. She brushed away the crumbs from the table.

brush something down; brush down something	to clean and groom fur or fabric by brushing	Why don't you brush your coat down? It's very linty. I brushed down my trousers, and they looked much better.

!!!

brush something up	to improve one's knowledge of something or one's ability to do something (See also brush up (on something))	I need to brush my French up a little bit. I need to brush up my French.
brush up	improve a skill quickly	She took a two-week course to BRUSH UP her Spanish before she traveling around South and Central America.
brush up (on something)	to improve one's knowledge of something or one's ability to do something	I need to brush up on my German. My German is weak. I had better brush up.
brush up (on something)	to study again something you learned before	Brushing up on computer skills can be important for any worker thinking about getting a new job.
brush up on	improve, refresh one's knowledge of something.	Mary decided to brush up on her Spanish before going to South-America.
brush up on; bone up on	To review/study thoroughly for a short time	I need to brush up on my French before my trip to Paris next month.

bubble over	become very excited	She BUBBLED OVER with joy when she heard her exam results.
bubble over	[for boiling or effervescent liquid] to spill or splatter over the edge of its container	The pot bubbled over and put out the flame on the stove. The stew bubbled over.
bubble over	[for someone] to be so happy and merry that the joy "spills over" onto other people	She was just bubbling over, she was so happy. Lily bubbled over with joy.

bubble up	a very happy or successful period of time suddenly ends (usually in past tenses)	The economy was booming, then the bubble burst with the stockmarket crash of October 1987.
bubble up	giddy; crazy	She is acting about half a bubble off plumb. What is wrong with her? Tom is just half a bubble off plumb, but he is all heart.
bubble up	to appear suddenly	When she laughs, a happy child's laugh bubbles up out of her. The most interesting ideas in education have bubbled up in places as different as New York and Arizona.
bubble up (through something)	[for a liquid] to seep up or well up through something, such as from between rocks, through a crack in the floor, or through a hole in the bottom of a boat	The water bubbled up through a crack in the basement floor.

buck for something	to work ambitiously for something, such as a promotion	I'm just bucking for recognition and, of course, a 20 percent raise. You can tell by her attention to the boss that she's bucking for promotion.

buck somebody off	[for a horse or similar animal] to rear up in an attempt to shake off its rider	The horse tried to buck Sharon off, but she held on tight. The horse bucked off its rider.

buck up	to cheer up; to perk up	Come on, now, buck up. Things can't be all that bad. She began to buck up when I showed her the results of the tests.
buck up (somebody)	to encourage someone to be energetic and positive	I told the kids when they had colds to buck up and tough it out.

bucket down	rain heavily	Take an umbrella; it is BUCKETING DOWN.

buckle down	to buckle one's seat belt, as in a car or plane	Please buckle up so our flight can begin. I wish you would obey the law and belt up.
buckle down	to do the work you need to do	Schools, parents, and students need to buckle down and find ways to reach the new standards.
buckle down (to something)	to settle down to something; to begin to work seriously at something	If you don't buckle down to your job, you'll be fired. You had better buckle down and get busy.
buckle something/somebody down	to attach someone or something down with straps that buckle together	They stopped to buckle the load down again. Did you buckle down the kids?

buckle somebody in	to attach someone securely with a vehicle's seat belts (This includes airplane seat belts)	Don't forget to buckle the children in. Did you buckle in the children?

buckle under	[for someone] to collapse or give in under the burden of heavy demands or great anxiety	With so much to worry about, she buckled under. I was afraid she would buckle under.
buckle under	[for something] to collapse	With heavy trucks on it, the bridge buckled under. The table buckled under.
buckle under something	to collapse under or from the weight of something	The bridge buckled under the weight of the truck and collapsed. The table finally buckled under.

buckle something/somebody up	to attach someone or something securely with straps that buckle together (This emphasizes the completeness and secureness of the act)	Buckle the children up before we leave. Buckle up your shoes.
buckle up	to buckle one's seat belt, as in a car or plane	Please buckle up so our flight can begin. I wish you would obey the law and belt up.
buckle up	to fasten a strap that holds you in your seat in a vehicle or aircraft	Four out of five children are not correctly buckled up. The pilot asked the passengers to buckle up because we were flying through a storm system.

bud out	[for a flowering plant or tree] to develop buds	How early in the spring do the trees bud out around here? The trees bud out in early spring.

buddy up (with somebody)	to join with another person to form a pair that will do something together or share something	I buddied up with Carl, and we helped each other on the hike. Carl and I buddied up, and we shared a canoe.

budge up	move to make space for someone	We had to BUDGE UP to let the fourth person in the back of the car.

budget something for something/somebody	to set aside a certain amount of money for someone or something	Did you budget some money for the holiday party? I budgeted a few hundred a month for Andrew's college expenses.

buff something down	to polish or smooth something by buffing	I buffed the newly waxed table down with a cloth. I'm going to go out and buff down the car.

buff up	clear, clean or make something shine	The silver candlestick looked lovely after I BUFFED it UP.
buff up	improve	After the scandal, the politician tried to BUFF UP his public image.
buff up on	improve your knowledge quickly	I BUFFED UP ON my grammar before the test.

buffet something/somebody (from something/somebody) (to something/somebody)	to shift someone or something back and forth between people, things, or places, as if being tossed around by the waves of the sea	The state agency buffeted the orphan child from one relative to another. The office staff buffeted the memo from one desk to another.

bug off	go away	I told her to bug off because she was annoying me. Get out!; Go away! (Usually Bug off!) Bug off! Get out of my sight! Bug off and leave me alone!
bug off	to cease bothering [someone]	Hey, bug off! Your comments are annoying. I wish you would bug off!

bug out	leave somewhere in a hurry	They BUGGED OUT when the police arrived.
bug out	open your eyes wide in surprise	He BUGGED OUT when she turned up.
bug out	to become upset and excited	I said I would do it, and then I started thinking and I was kind of bugging out about the whole thing.
bug out	to feel very comfortable and warm because you are in bed or under a cover	You get in your nice warm bed with your teddy and you'll be as snug as a bug in a rug!
bug out	to get out of somewhere fast	I gotta find a way to bug out of here without getting caught. Okay, the downpour has stopped. Let's bug out.
bug out	to leave suddenly	When it was time for him to show up for his army service, he bugged out for one of the islands.
bug out	to pack up and leave or retreat	Orders are to bug out by oh-nine-hundred. Okay, everybody, move it! We're bugging out.

build (something) out over something	to construct something so that it extends over something else, such as water or some architectural feature	We built a deck out over the pond. We built the deck over the pond.

build (up)on something	to construct something on a particular space (Upon is more formal and less commonly used than on)	Are you going to build upon this land? Yes, we will build on it.
build (up)on something	to start with something and add to it (Upon is more formal and less commonly used than on)	Our progress has been good so far. Let's build on it. We will build upon the success of our forebears.

build down	[for traffic] to reduce in volume or diminish	At about six, the going-home traffic begins to build down. When traffic builds down, I leave for home.

build in something	to include a feature when something is being put together	You should build in some way to cancel the contract if things don't work out. Software developers built in a word processor.

build on something	to add another thing to something that already exists	In his new book he builds on his own discoveries, and he builds on current theory. The president is building upon the extraordinary commitment to volunteerism Americans have.
build on(to) something	to add to something by constructing an extension	Do you plan to build onto this house? Yes, we are going to build on.

build out onto something	to extend a building onto a particular space	We can build out onto the adjacent lot after we purchase it. We built out onto the area over the old patio.
build something out of something	to construct something from parts or materials	She built a tower out of the blocks. They will build the bridge out of reinforced concrete.

build somebody into something	to make a person an integral part of an organization or a plan	The mayor built his cronies into the organizational structure of the town. He built in his relatives as part of the administration.

build somebody up (for something)	to prepare someone for something; to bring a person into a state of mind to accept some information	We built them up for the challenge they were to face. We had to build up the woman before breaking the bad news.
build something (up)on something	to add to and develop something that already exists	We have a good reputation and we must build on it. He has to build on his strong friendships with the customers.
build something (up)on something	to construct something on the base of something else (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The ancients built their houses upon the houses of earlier people.

build something into something	to get enough energy, support, or enthusiasm to do something effectively (Usage notes: A head of steam is the pressure that is needed in the engine of an old-fashioned steam train to make it start moving)	In the last three months the campaign has built up a good head of steam.
build something into something	to integrate a piece of furniture or an appliance into a building's construction	We will build this cupboard into the wall about here. We are going to build in a chest of drawers. Then we will build another one in.
build something into something	to make a feature part of the design of something	We have built new data security into the software design. The schedule has a lot of free time built into it.
build something into something	to make a particular quality a basic part of something	We build quality into our cars before we put our name on them. We build in quality.
build something into something	to make a special restriction or specification a part of the plan of something	I built the restriction into our agreement. The lawyer built in the requirement that payments be by certified check.

build something on(to) something	to construct an extension onto a building	We are going to build a garage onto this side of the house. We will build on a new garage. The people next door are not going to build anything on.

build something to order	to build an individual object according to a special set of specifications	I am having them build a new house to order - ;just for us. The car will be built to order.

build something up	to add buildings to an area of land or a neighborhood	They are really building this area up. There is no more open space. They built up the area over the years.
build something up	to develop, accumulate, or increase something, such as wealth, business, goodwill, etc.	I built this business up through hard work and hope. She built up a good business over the years.
build something up	to praise or exalt something; to exaggerate the virtues of something	The master of ceremonies built the act up so much that everyone was disappointed when they saw it. He built up the act too much.
build something/somebody up	to advertise, praise, or promote someone or something	Theatrical agents work very hard to build up their clients. Advertising can build a product up so much that everyone will want it.
build something/somebody up	to make someone or something bigger or stronger	Tom is lifting weights to build himself up for basketball. Tom needs to build up his upper body.
build something/somebody up (into something/somebody)	to develop or advance someone or something into a particular [desirable] kind of person or thing	The publicity people built her up into a singer whom everyone looked forward to hearing. The agent built up the local band into a top national act.
build up	develop a company	She BUILT the business UP from nothing into a market leader in less than a decade.
build up	he needs to do some exercises to build himself up.
build up	increase	Tension has been BUILDING UP ever since the government passed the unpopular law.
build up	to increase; to develop	The storm clouds are building up. Better close the windows.
build up to something	[for a person] to lead up to something or advance to doing or saying something	I can tell you are building up to something. What is it?
build up to something	[for a situation] to develop into something	The argument is building up to something unpleasant.

bulge out	to swell outward; to extend out into a lump or mound	The puppy's tummy bulged out, full of food. The bag of grass clippings bulged out heavily.

bulk out	make something bigger or thicker	I BULKED the essay OUT with a few quotes to reach the number of word required.

bulk up somebody/something	in large quantities or amounts, rather than smaller, more convenient quantities or amounts	Jane always bought office supplies in bulk to save money. Dave purchased cereal in bulk because his family used so much of it.
bulk up somebody/something	to make someone or something stronger or more powerful	National Guard soldiers were bulking up airport security in the state. We have to be careful with his weight training not to bulk him up too much.

bulldoze into something	to move clumsily into something	Don't just bulldoze into me! Watch where you are going! Todd bulldozed into the wall, denting it badly.

bulldoze through something	to push clumsily and carelessly through something	Don't just bulldoze through your work! I wish you wouldn't bulldoze through the room.

bully somebody into something	to harass or threaten someone into doing something	The coach tried to bully them into agreeing to stay late and practice. Don't try to bully me into your way of doing things.

bum around (with somebody)	to spend or waste a lot of time with a particular person	He used to bum around with Ted a lot. They bummed around together all summer.

bum out	to have a bad experience (Originally referred to a bad experience with drugs)	Are you going to bum out again tonight? Man, is he bummed out!
bum somebody out	to disappoint someone	This menial job really bums me out. The bad movie bummed out the entire audience.

bum something off somebody	to beg or borrow something from someone	Can I bum a cigarette off you? You can't bum anything off me that I don't have.

bumble through something	to get through something clumsily	I guess I will have to bumble through this speech again. Lily bumbled through her song and fled from the stage.

bump (up) against something/somebody	to strike someone or something accidentally, usually relatively gently	The car bumped up against the curb. The door has bumped against the wall and scratched the paint.

bump along	and bump along something	to travel along a rough road. We bumped along on the dirt road to the lake. We bumped along the road, hanging onto our hats.
bump along	[for some plan or situation] to move along awkwardly and unevenly	The whole project bumped along to an uncertain conclusion. The plan bumped along for a while and then we all gave it up.

bump into	meet by accident or unexpectedly.	Pedro bumped into his English teacher at the supermarket.
bump into	meet by chance	I BUMPED INTO Helen on the underground the other day.
bump into (run into) somebody	to meet someone you know unexpectedly	I bumped into her at the party last night.
bump into somebody	to chance on someone; to meet someone by chance (Not normally with physical contact)	Guess who I bumped into downtown today? I ran into Bill Jones yesterday.
bump into somebody	to move inadvertently or crash into someone	Excuse me. I didn't mean to bump into you. The child on the bicycle nearly bumped into me.
bump into somebody/something	if someone sits or stands somewhere like a bump on a log, they do not react in a useful or helpful way to the activities happening around them	Don't just sit there like a bump on a log, come and help us!
bump into somebody/something	to unexpectedly meet someone or find something	Last week, Jill bumped into an old college friend she hadn't seen in years. The story is about an amateur detective who lives in Maine and has an amazing ability to bump into real-life murder stories.

bump off (somebody)	to kill someone	Unbelievable as it is, this woman decided that she was going to bump off her husband's girlfriend. The drug dealer was BUMPED OFF by a rival gang.
bump somebody off	to kill someone	They tried to bump her off, but she was too clever and got away. The crooks threatened to bump off the witness to the crime.

bump something/somebody up	to damage or batter someone or something	The crash into the wall bumped the race driver up a little. The accident bumped up the passengers a little.
bump something/somebody up	to raise someone or something to a higher category or level (As if pushing someone into a higher category)	I wanted to fly first class, but they wouldn't bump me up. The ticket agent bumped up both of my friends, but not me.
bump up	to increase	They BUMP UP the prices in the high season.

bunch something/somebody up	to pack or cluster things or people together	Bunch them up so you can squeeze them into the sack. Kelly bunched up the roses and put them in a vase.
bunch up	to pack together or cluster	Spread out. Don't bunch up!

bundle (oneself) up (against something)	to wrap oneself up in protective clothing or bedding as protection against the cold	Please bundle yourself up against the frigid wind. Bundle up before you go outside.

bundle off	to send someone somewhere	He BUNDLED the kids OFF to bed.
bundle off	to leave in a hurry; to take all one's parcels or baggage and leave in a hurry	She got ready and bundled off after her bus. Her arms full, Lily bundled off in a rush.
bundle somebody off (to some place)	to send someone, usually a child, somewhere	Robert bundled the children off to school. They bundled off the kids and were able to relax.
bundle something off (to somebody or some place)	to send something off in a bundle to someone	He bundled his laundry off to his mother, who would wash it for him. Mary bundled off the package to her brother.

bundle out	to expel	The barman BUNDLED the drunk OUT because he was annoying the other customers.

bundle somebody into something	to put someone, usually a child, into heavy outdoor clothing and bundle someone in to put someone, usually a child, into bed	Bill bundled Billy into his parka. Tom bundled himself into his parka and opened the door to go out. She bundled Sarah into bed after reading her a story. June pulled the sheets back and bundled Sarah in.

bundle somebody up (in something)	to wrap someone up in protective clothing or bedding	Bill bundled Billy up in his parka. Bill bundled up Mary in her parka.
bundle up	to put on warm clothing	We BUNDLED UP before going out as it was snowing.
bundle up	to wrap or tie things together	I BUNDLED UP my newspapers and dropped them in the recycling bin.
bundle up (somebody)	to be very nervous	You should have seen me before the interview. I was a bundle of nerves.
bundle up (somebody)	to put coats and other warm clothes on someone	In the winter you have to bundle up, because it gets really cold. Her mom bundled her up in a down parka, with a knit cap under the hood.

bung something in	to cram or bang something into something	He bunged the cork into the barrel. With a heavy blow, he bunged in the cork.

bung something up	to damage someone or something by blows	Don't let the watermelon roll around in the trunk of your car. You don't want to bung it up. Last time I put up the storm windows, I really bunged up my hands.

bungle something up	to botch something; to mess something up	Please don't bungle this job up. Tom was careless and he bungled up the job.

bunk (up) together	[for two or more people] to share a bed, a bedroom, or a tent	Shall we bunk together? My tent is big and you can bunk up with me.
bunk (up) with somebody	to share a bed, a bedroom, or a tent with someone	Are you going to bunk up with Fred? I'll bunk with Todd.

bunk down (for the night)	to bed down for the night; to go to bed	Where are you going to bunk down for the night? I'm tired and ready to bunk down.

bunk off	not go to school when you should	I used to BUNK OFF school and go into town.

buoy somebody up	to support, encourage, or sustain someone	The good news buoyed her up considerably. Her good humor buoyed up the entire party.
buoy something/somebody up	to keep someone or something afloat	Use this cushion to buoy yourself up. The log buoyed up the swimmer until help came. The air trapped in the hull buoyed the boat up.
buoy up	to make someone feel more positive	After so much criticism, the positive review BUOYED him UP.

burden something/somebody with something/somebody	to bother or weigh down someone or something with someone or something	Please don't burden us with the bad news at this time. I don't want to burden the school with a troublesome child.

burgeon out	to develop and grow rapidly; to burst forth	The flowers burgeoned out and made the garden beautiful again. When the trees have burgeoned out, spring is really here.

burn down	to burn completely	They had to completely rebuild the museum after the old one BURNED DOWN.
burn down	to completely destroy by fire	That house burned down last year.

burn off	to remove by burning or similar process	I BURN OFF a lot of calories in the gym.

burn out	to become exhausted from overworking	Tom will burn himself out if he doesn't slow down.
burn out	to lose enthusiasm and energy to continue in a demanding job. To become exhausted (from doing something too long/too intensively, etc.); To become exhausted, unenthusiastic about a job due to boredom, stress, etc.	Jennie BURNT OUT after ten years working as a future broker and went to live in the country.
burn out	to stop (something) working	The fuse has burnt out.

burn somebody at !
burn something to !
burn up
burn with (something) !

burst in with	She burst in with the bad news.

burst into	[for something] to catch fire and become a large fire quickly	She BURST INTO laughter when she heard the joke. As soon as the flame reached the curtains, the entire wall seemed to burst into flames. The two cars burst into flames soon after the collision.
burst into	to laugh, cry or clap loudly	The car BURST INTO flames and the driver died as he didn't have time to get out.

burst out

bury oneself in something	to become very busy with something	She stopped taking phone calls and buried herself in her work. He tended to bury himself in his work.
bury oneself in something	to hide oneself some place (Alludes to burying oneself in a cave or something similar)	He buried himself in the back of the little shop and worked quietly. The lizard buried itself in the sand.
bury something/somebody in something	to hide or conceal someone or something from view in some place	The office manager buried Tom at a small desk in the back room. Someone buried the manual typewriter in a room full of old junk.
bury something/somebody in something	to inter someone or something in a grave, the ground, a vault, a tomb, etc.	They buried the old man in the family vault. Thousands of war veterans are buried in the national cemetery.

bury something/somebody away (some place)	to bury or hide someone or something some place	The dog buried the bone away under a bush. The ex-dictator was buried away in an unmarked grave.

bury something/somebody under something	to bury someone or something beneath something, sometimes to hide or conceal it	Joe buried the money under a stone in the forest. They buried Aunt Mary under a pine tree.

bust out (of some place)	to break out of some place, especially a prison (Bust is a nonstandard form of burst meaning 'break' here)	Somehow the gangsters busted out of prison and left the country. They busted out together.
bust somebody out of some place	to expel or force someone to withdraw from school (Bust is a nonstandard form of burst meaning 'break' here)	The clean finally busted Bill out of school. The clean busted out the students with very low grades.
bust somebody out of some place	to help someone escape from prison (Bust is a non-standard form of burst meaning 'break' here)	Lefty did not manage to bust Max out of prison. Lefty wanted to bust out some of his friends.

bust somebody up	to beat someone up; to batter someone (Bust is a nonstandard form of burst meaning 'hit' here)	You want me to bust you up? Max busted up Lefty pretty badly.
bust somebody up	to cause lovers to separate; to break up a pair of lovers, including married persons (See also bust something up)	Bust is a nonstandard form of burst meaning 'break (apart)' here. Mary busted Terri and John up. Mary busted up Terri and John.
bust something up	to ruin a marriage by coming between the married people (See also bust someone up; Bust is a nonstandard form of burst meaning 'break' here)	He busted their marriage up by starting rumors about Maggie. He busted up their marriage.
bust something up	to break or ruin something; to break something into smaller pieces (Bust is a nonstandard form of burst meaning 'break' here)	Who busted this plate up? Don't bust up the plates! Be careful!
bust up	[for lovers] to separate or break up (Bust is a nonstandard form of burst meaning 'break' here)	Tom and Alice busted up for good. They busted up last week.
bust up	[for something] to break up due to natural causes (Bust is a nonstandard form of burst meaning 'break (apart)' here)	The rocket busted up in midair. I saw it bust up.

bustle about doing something	to go about doing something busily and energetically	Greg bustled about all day, doing the chores. Lily bustled about, getting dinner ready.

bustle around	to move about very busily	The people were bustling around, trying to get things ready for the picnic. I wish you would stop bustling around.

bustle off	to leave in haste	Well, I have to bustle off or I'll miss my flight. I hate to bustle off so soon.
bustle somebody off	to help someone leave; to send someone out or away	The cops bustled the crook off. They bustled off the three men who were fighting.

busy oneself with something/somebody	to occupy one's time by dealing with someone or something	Tony busied himself with helping Sam. Mrs. Wilson busied herself with little Jimmy.
busy somebody with something/somebody	to keep someone busy dealing with someone or something	You should busy the children with some activity. We will busy Randy with cleaning up the garage.

butt (up) against something/somebody	to press against someone or something firmly	This board is supposed to butt up against the one over there. The goat butted against Fred, but didn't hurt him.

butt in (on something/somebody)	to interrupt (someone or something)	Pardon me for butting in on your conversation, but this is important. John butted in on Tom and Jane to tell them that the mail had come. I hope you don't mind me BUTTING IN on your conversation, but I couldn't help hearing what you said. Sorry to butt in on you like this, but there's an important call. How can we talk when you keep butting in all the time?
butt in (on)	to interrupt impolitely (a conversation, an action)	It's rude to butt in on a conversation. Hey, don't butt in! Wait for your turn!

butt into something	to intrude upon something; to break into a conversation	Please don't butt into my conversation; I'm on the phone. I don't like my conversations being butted into by perfect strangers!

butt out	to not be involved in other people's business	This is none of your business, so just BUTT OUT!.
butt out	to exit [as abruptly as one has intruded] (Compare this with butt in (on someone or something); Usually a command)	Butt out! Leave me alone! Please butt out of my life!
butt out	to not get involved in something (Usage notes: often used as an order)	Teens usually think their parents should just butt out of their lives. This is none of your business, so just butt out!

butter somebody up	to flatter someone; to treat someone especially nicely in hopes of receiving special favors (See also spread something on thick; soft soap)	A student tried to butter the teacher up. She buttered up the teacher again.
butter somebody up	to praise someone in order to get them to like you or do what you want	The magazine tried to get her to write an article by buttering her up.
butter up	to praise or flatter someone excessively	I tried BUTTERING my tutor UP but she still wouldn’t let me hand it in late.

button something down	to fasten something down with buttons	Button your collar down. You look too casually dressed. Please button down your collar.

button something up	to fasten something with buttons	Button your shirt up, please. I will button up my shirt.
button up	to fasten one's buttons	Your jacket's open. You'd better button up. It's cold. I'll button up in the car.
button up	to get silent and stay silent (See also button (up) one's lip)	Hey, button up! That's enough out of you. I wish you would button up and stop gossiping.

buttress something up	to brace something; to provide architectural support for something	We have to buttress up this part of the wall while we work on it. The workers buttressed the wall up with heavy timbers.
buttress something up	to provide extra support, often financial support, for something	We rounded up some money to buttress the company up through the sales slump. The loan buttressed up the company for a few months.

buy in	to force a cd or record into the charts by buying lots of copies	Joe Meek's last hit, 'Singing' the Blues', was probably BOUGHT IN at number 40, but failed to go any higher.

buy into	to accept an idea	I never BOUGHT INTO the idea of a federalist European Union.
buy into	to accept/believe/trust	I'm not gullible. I'm not buying into what he says.

buy off	to pay someone to stop them causing trouble	He BOUGHT the newspaper OFF by placing a lot of adverts.

buy out	to buy somebody's share in a company	His business partners BOUGHT him OUT to get rid of him.

buy something (from somebody) (for something)	to purchase something from someone at a particular price, or for a particular type of payment, such as for cash, for practically nothing, etc.	I bought the car from Mark for a reasonable price. I bought it for a reasonable price from Mark.

buy something on !

buy up	to buy all of something	We BOUGHT UP all the shop had before the price went up.

buzz along	to move or drive along fast	The cars were buzzing along at a great rate. Traffic is sure buzzing along.

buzz around	move quickly around a place	Reporters were BUZZING AROUND the scene of the accident.

buzz for somebody	to sound a signal for someone	Please buzz for the bell captain. I buzzed for my secretary and waited for a reply.

buzz in (to some place)	to come into a place rapidly or unexpectedly	The child buzzed into the shop and bought a nickel's worth of candy. I just buzzed in to say hello.

buzz off	(informal) to telephone someone	Give me a buzz when you get home.
buzz off	to go away (imperative) (Usage notes: often used as an order)	I can't believe he would tell a senator to buzz off. Buzz off and leave me alone! He told them to BUZZ OFF because they were annoying him.
buzz off	if something gives you a buzz, it makes you feel excited	Watching live bands really gives me a buzz (informal)
buzz off	to leave somewhere	I am BUZZING OFF now. I have to meet some people.
buzz off	to leave quickly	I've got to buzz off. Bye. It's time for me to buzz off.

buzz somebody into !

buzz with something	[for a place] to be busy or filled with something	The room buzzed with excitement. The office had better be buzzing with moneymaking activity when I get there.


cadge something from somebody	to beg or borrow something from someone	Go cadge some sugar from the lady next door. I cadged this jacket off a friendly guy I met.

cage something/somebody in	to confine someone or something	Please don't cage me in this tiny room! The health authorities virtually caged in the quarantined population until they could all be tested.
cage something/somebody in	to enclose someone or something in a cage	We caged the monkey in, but it threw a fit. We are going to have to cage in the dogs.

cajole somebody into something	to coax or persuade someone to do something	They tried to cajole us into helping them move. You can't cajole me into doing that!
cajole somebody out of something	to coax or persuade someone not to do something	Try and cajole her out of going there. I cajoled her out of leaving so soon.
cajole somebody out of something	to coax or persuade someone to give up something or give away something	She tried to cajole him out of his inheritance.

cake something/somebody with something	to cover someone or something with a thicker layer of clumps of a substance such as mud, dirt, blood, etc.	The attendant caked her with hot mud at the beginning of the arthritis treatment. All the motocross racers were heavily caked with mud. She caked herself with green mud to remove her wrinkles.

calculate on something	to think about or plan on something	Let me calculate on this a little bit. He's busy calculating on a serious problem.
calculate something into something	to include something in one's calculations	Did you calculate the cost of the cake into the total? Yes, I calculated in all the costs.

call after	to name someone after somebody else	She was CALLED Rose AFTER her late grandmother.

call around	to phone many different places/people	We called around but we weren't able to find the car part we needed.
call around	to visit	I CALLED AROUND but she was not in.

call back	return a phone call	I must CALL her BACK when we get to the office. I'll call you back as soon as possible.

call for	to demand	The Opposition party CALLED FOR the minister's resignation after the scandal broke.
call for	to go and collect someone to take them out	I'll CALL FOR you at seven, so be ready because the film starts at half past.
call for	to go to collect something	The courier CALLED FOR your parcel, but I told him it wasn't ready yet.
call for	to require	An emergency like this CALLS FOR some pretty drastic action.
call for	to telephone for something	I'll CALL FOR a cab right away.
call for	to require	You're pregnant? This calls for a celebration!

call in	to communicate by phone; consult a specialist
call in	to get someone to come and do a job	We had to CALL IN a plumber because the sink was leaking and I had no idea how to fix it. I CALLED IN on Jenny on my way home because she's not very well at the moment and I wanted to see if she needed anything.

call (something) off	to cancel something	The concert had to be CALLED OFF because the singer went down with a bad case of flu. I had to call off the barbecue because of the bad weather. They called off the game because of the rain.
call something off	to cancel	Jason called the wedding off because he wasn't in love with his fiancé.
call off	to order someone to stop attacking	CALL OFF your lawyers; we can work something out.

call on	to ask for help	The President CALLED ON the wealthy countries for financial aid after the floods destroyed much of the country's agriculture.
call on	to someone to do something, especially to speak in public	I now CALL ON the other party to give their account of what happened.
call on	to challenge	He CALLED the speaker ON several mis-statements of fact.
call (somebody) on	to visit	As we were in the area, we CALLED ON my sister-in-law.
call on somebody	to ask for an answer or opinion	The professor called on me for question 1.
call on somebody	to visit someone	We called on you last night but you weren't home.

call on/upon	formally invite or request.	I now call upon the President to address the assembly.

call out	to read names aloud; order workers to strike

call round	to visit	I CALLED ROUND on my way home but no one was in.

call somebody back	to return a phone call	I called the company back but the offices were closed for the weekend.

call somebody to !
call to	to do something	He was out when I called to see him.
call to !

call up	to reach by phone; summon someone for military service	The army CALLED UP the reserve soldiers when the war broke out.
call (somebody) up (somebody)	to telephone, phone	I CALLED him UP as soon as I got to a phone to tell him the news. Give me your phone number and I will call you up when we are in town.
call up	when speaking of soldiers, etc. - Requested to report for duty	My brother was called up last week.

calm down	to become more relaxed or less angry/upset.	He was angry at first, but he eventually calmed down. Please calm down.
calm down	to relax after being angry	You are still mad. You need to calm down before you drive the car.
calm down	to stop being angry or emotionally excited	When I lose my temper, it takes ages for me to CALM DOWN again.
calm down	to relax; to become less busy or active. To make someone relax	Now, now, calm down. You look so nervous. Please calm down. Nothing bad is going to happen. Calm down, it's not as bad as you think!
calm somebody down	to cause someone or an animal to be less active, upset, or unsettled	Please try to calm yourself down! Can you calm down your yapping dog?

camp something up	[for performers] to overact or behave in an affected manner	The cast began to camp it up in the second act, and the critics walked out (Fixed order). There is no need to camp it up. Play it the way it was written.

camp out	to live in a place temporarily without many possessions	The floods forced people from the city to camp out with relatives or even in public parks.
camp out	to live in the open air for a time, often in a tent	When I was in high school, during the summer we would camp out at the lake.
camp out	to live out of doors temporarily in a tent or camping vehicle, as on a vacation or special camping trip	I love to camp out in the winter.

campaign against something/somebody	to crusade or battle against someone or something	Currently, I am campaigning against littering. Sarah is campaigning against crooked politicians.
campaign against something/somebody	to run one's political campaign against someone or something	I campaigned against the incumbent and won. John spent a lot of time campaigning against Sarah for class president.

campaign for something/somebody	to support actively someone or someone's candidacy for political office	I would be very happy to campaign for you. I want to campaign for the winning candidate.

cancel each other out !

cancel out	to have an opposite effect on something that has happened, taking things back to the beginning	The airport taxes CANCELLED OUT the savings we had made on the flight tickets.
cancel out	to bring something back to zero by cancelling its effect with a reverse effect	The refund that we received was cancelled out by the increase in fees.
cancel out (of something)	to withdraw from something	I hate to cancel out of the event at the last minute, but this is an emergency. It's too late to cancel out.
cancel somebody out of something	to eliminate someone from something (as from a list of names)	We had to cancel them out. We canceled out all the people who did not show up.
cancel somebody out of something	to eliminate someone; to kill someone	The drug lord threatened to cancel out his former partner for testifying against him.
cancel something out	to balance the effects of something	Sending flowers might cancel the bad feelings out. The last payment canceled out the debt.

cap something off	to complete an experience in a particularly good or bad way (Usage notes: sometimes used in the form cap it all off)	We went to the beach, strolled around town, and capped off our visit with a fireworks display that evening. There's been bad economic news all year, and to cap it all off, now oil prices are increasing.

capitulate to something/somebody	to surrender or submit to someone or something	The general finally capitulated to the enemy. I won't capitulate in this argument.

care about/for (something/somebody)	to like someone or something	I don't really care for Thai food. I don't CARE FOR fizzy drinks; I prefer water.
care about/for (something/somebody)	to nurse someone or something	He cared for his sick father for three years. I really care about the environment. We care about recycling things. I don't care for his attitude - I don't like it at all. He is caring for his elderly parents.

careful of

carp about something/somebody	to complain about someone or something	You are always carping about all your petty problems at work. Stop carping about Randy!

carp at somebody (about something/somebody)	to complain to someone about someone or something	Why are you always carping at me about your family? You are always carping at Joan about her brother.
carp at something/somebody	to criticize someone or something	Poor Clara is carping at Bill's carelessness again. Please stop carping at me.

carried away	to get so emotional that you lose control	The team got CARRIED AWAY when they won the championship and started shouting and throwing things around.

carry (with something/somebody) !

carry away	to remove; inspire, affect emotionally

carry forward	to include a figure in a later calculation	They CARRIED FORWARD their losses to the next financial year.
carry forward	to make something progress	They hope the new management will be able to CARRY the project FORWARD.

carry off	to die of a disease	Cancer CARRIED him OFF a couple of years ago.
carry off	to win, succeed; to take away (by force); win; remove, degrade (earth). To pull off	She CARRIED OFF the first prize in the competition.

carry on	to continue	CARRY ON quietly with your work until the substitute teacher arrives. He carried on gardening in spite of the rain. Please carry on with your homework.
carry on about	to continue in an annoying way	He kept carrying on about how expensive his car is.
carry on with	to have an affair	He has been CARRYING ON WITH someone at work for years.

carry out	to do something as specified (plan, order, threat...)	The plan cas carried out to perfection.
carry out	to food bought from a restaurant to take away	I'm too tired to cook- let's get a CARRY-OUT.
carry out	to perform or conduct (test, experiment ...)	Tests are carried out to determine the efficiency of a new drug.
carry out	to perform, to accomplish, make; to perform a task	Dr. Williams carried out the procedure. The government is CARRYING OUT test on growing genetically modified crops.

carry over	to continue past a certain point	The meeting CARRIED OVER into the afternoon because there was so much to talk about.
carry over	to postpone until later	As regards holiays, can we carry over days from one year to the next?

carry through	to complete successfully. To complete; bring out of difficulties; come	They CARRIED the reforms THROUGH despite the opposition.

cart off	to take someone away, usually under arrest or to prison	The police CARTED them OFF to question them.
cart off	to take something away, especially if stealing or without permission	The thieves CARTED OFF all the ticket receipts.
cart something/somebody off	to take or haul someone or something away (When used with someone the person is treated like an object)	The police came and carted her off. Let's cart off these boxes.

cart somebody/something away	to take someone or something somewhere	Rioters smashed windows and carted off televisions, shoes, car tires, and anything else they could carry. He was carted off to jail. We cleaned out the garage and carted tons of stuff away. Investigators were carting away boxes of material from her office.

carve out something	if an arrangement, a plan, or a rule is set in stone, it is completely fixed so that it cannot be changed (usually negative)	The rules aren't set in stone; they can be altered to suit changing circumstances. These are just a few ideas to be discussed - nothing is carved in stone.
carve out something	to permanent or not subject to change (Often in the negative)	Now, this isn't carved in stone yet, but this looks like the way it's going to be. Is this policy carved in stone, or can it still be modified?
carve out something	to create a reputation, rank, or job through skillful activities	She carved out a reputation for herself as a high-powered lawyer.
carve out something	to get a part of something	Those companies carved out a sizable share of the imported pasta market.
carve something out	to hollow something out by carving; to make something hollow by carving	Can he carve a bowl out of such soft wood? He carved out the bowl of the pipe and then began to sand it.
carve something out (of something)	to remove something from the inside of something else by carving or cutting	She carved the insides out. She carved out the insides of the pumpkin.

carve something from something	to shape by cutting something off or out of something with a knife	Can you carve an elephant from a bar of soap?

carve something in stone	to fix some idea permanently	No one has carved this one approach in stone; we have several options.

carve something into something	and carve something in to cut letters or symbols into something	He carved his initials into a tree. He carved in the letters one by one.
carve something into something	to create a carved object by sculpturing raw material	Ken carved the apple into a tiny snowman.

carve something up (something)	to divide something up, perhaps carelessly; to divide something into part	The peace treaty carved the former empire up into several countries. You can't just carve up one country and give the pieces away. The new owner carved up the company and sold off several divisions. Local leaders have carved up the forest and turned the land over to a company that built homes on it.
carve something/somebody up	to damage someone or something by careless or purposeful cutting (of a person, can be figurative)	Someone carved the tabletop up. Who did it and why? The boxer wanted to carve up his opponent.

cash in	to convert shares, bonds, casino chips, etc. into money	They CASHED IN their bonds and spent the money on a holiday.
cash in (on something)	money that is immediately available to spend	They need investors with ready money if they're going to get the project started.
cash in (on something)	to earn a lot of money at something; to make a profit at something	This is a good year for drug stocks, and you can cash in on it if you're smart. It's too late to cash in on that particular clothing fad.
cash in (on something)	to make money doing something	Companies developing this technology are not necessarily cashing in. Criminals cannot cash in on their crimes by selling their stories to the newspapers.
cash in on	to benefit or make money on something, especially if done unfairly	The opposition party is CASHING IN ON the government’s unpopularity.
cash in on (sth.)	to profit, make money from sth	The basketball player wanted to cash in on his popularity by opening a sports bar.
cash something in	to exchange something with cash value for the amount of money it is worth	I should have cashed my insurance policy in years ago. It's time to cash in your U. S. savings bonds.
cash something in (for something)	to exchange a security for money; to convert a foreign currency to one's own currency; to turn gaming tokens or poker chips in for money	I cashed the bonds in for a cashier's check. I cashed in my bonds for their face value.

cash on !

cash out	to illegally access a bank account or credit card and steal money	A hacker got my credit card details from my computer and CASHED OUT a lot of money.
cash out (something)	to sell something you bought as an investment	Most of the early investors cashed out as the business became increasingly complicated. You should avoid cashing out your retirement plan.

cash up	to count all the money taken in a shop or business at the end of the day	After the shop closed, they have to CASH UP before they can go home.

cast over something !

cast on (on something/somebody) !

cast in !

cast somebody/something aside	to dispose of someone; to reject or discard someone	He simply cast his wife aside, and that was it.
cast somebody/something aside	to throw something away	You can't just cast aside a new coat that you've only worn once.

catapult something/somebody into something	to throw someone or something into a place using a catapult	The soldiers catapulted the huge stone into the fortress.
catapult something/somebody into something	to thrust or force someone or something into something, such as fame, glory, front-page news, etc.	The success catapulted her into the spotlight. The scandal catapulted the contractual arrangements into public scrutiny.

catch at	to take or grab hold of something	She CAUGHT AT my sleeve as I was leaving and said she needed to talk to me.

catch on	to ecome popular	Many critics were shocked when techno CAUGHT ON in the clubs.
catch on	finally understand what is going on	Everyone else realized what was happening, but it took Henry ages to CATCH ON.
catch on	to slowly start to understand	She caught on after a few minutes.

catch out	to discover or prove that someone is lying	He CAUGHT me OUT when he checked my story with my previous employer.
catch out	to put someone in an unexpected and difficult situation (often passive)	We were CAUGHT OUT in the storm.
catch out	to trick	The exam is designed to CATCH you OUT.

catch sight of somebody/something	to see someone or something briefly; to get a quick look at someone or something	I caught sight of the plane just before it flew out of sight. Ann caught a glimpse of the robber as he ran out of the bank.
catch sight of somebody/something	to see someone or something only for a moment	I caught sight of someone with red hair and knew it was you.

catch/take somebody off !

catch up	to get to the same point as someone else	You'll have to run faster than that if you want to catch up with Marty.
catch up	to get work, etc. up to date	I was ill for a fortnight and now I've got to CATCH UP on the work I missed.
catch up	to reach someone who was ahead of you	He started well, but I CAUGHT him UP on the third lap.
catch up	to make up for lost time	I'm trying to catch up on my homework, since I was away from school for 2 weeks.
catch up	to talk to someone after not talking for a long time	Mary and I bumped into each other at the mall last week. We hadn't seen each other for a year, so we had a lot of catching up to do.
catch up (on/with)	to do something that should have been done earlier	I'm going home to CATCH UP ON my sleep. Run faster - we have to catch up with the rest of the group. I caught up with the homework last weekend.
catch up with	to learn something new that many people already understand	My mother is trying to CATCH UP WITH computers.
catch up with	to meet someone after a period of time and find out what they have been doing	I CAUGHT UP WITH her at the conference.
catch up with	to punish someone after they have been doing something wrong for a long time	The tax authorities CAUGHT UP WITH me for not submitting my tax returns.
catch up with	when something negative starts to have an effect	His criminal behavior is starting to CATCH UP WITH him.

cater for	to provide what is necessary	The college CATERS FOR students of all ages.

cater to	to provide what is needed, often seen negatively	The film CATERS TO the audience’s worst instincts.
cater to something/somebody	to provide for or care for someone or something	I believe that we can cater to you in this matter. Our company caters to larger firms that do not wish to maintain a service department.
cater to something/somebody	to provide special or favorable treatment for someone or something	I'm sorry, but I cannot cater to you and not to the others. We do not have the time to cater to special requests.

caution somebody about something/somebody	to warn someone against someone or something	Haven't I cautioned you about that before? Hasn't someone cautioned you about Daniel?

cave in	[for a roof or ceiling] to collapse	The roof CAVED IN because of the weight of the snow. The roof of the mine caved in when no one was there. The tunnel caved in on the train.
cave in	to stop resisting or refusing	The government has refused to CAVE IN despite the protests and demonstrations.
cave in	to give in; to accept after being pressured and finally convinced, etc.	My brother finally caved in and bought the new t-shirt that everyone is wearing.
cave in (to somebody/something)	if the roof caves in, something very bad suddenly happens to you	For the first six years of my life I was happy. Then my father died and the roof caved in.
cave in (to somebody/something)	to agree to something after originally opposing it give in (to somebody/something)	If the pressure from your parents becomes too strong, you might cave in and go to graduate school.

cavil at somebody	to find fault with someone; to complain about someone constantly	Will you never cease caviling at all of us? There is no need to cavil at me day and night!

cede something to somebody	to grant a parcel of land to someone	We refuse to cede that land to you. They ceded the land to the city for a park.

celebrate somebody for an accomplishment	to honor someone for having done something	The people celebrated the astronaut for a successful journey. She was celebrated widely for her discovery.

cement something on(to) something	to fasten something onto something with glue or household cement	Cement this handle back onto the cup. Now, cement on the other handle. I will cement it on for you.

censure somebody (for something)	to criticize someone formally for having done something	Please don't censure us for doing our duty. The legislature proposed to censure one of its members.

chain somebody (or an animal) up	to bind someone or an animal in chains	We will have to chain him up until the police get here. Please chain up your dog.
chain something up	to lock or secure a door or gate with chains	Please chain the gate up again when you come through. Yes, chain up the gate.

chain something to something	to connect things together with chains	We chained all the bicycles to one another so no one could steal them. We will have to chain the lawn furniture to a tree if we leave it out while we are on vacation.

chain something/somebody down	to fasten someone or something down with chains	They chained down the the bicycle rack so no one could steal it. We chained the tool-shed down so a strong wind would not blow it over.

chalk (something) up to	to blame (something) on; To give the reason for (something)	Don't worry about losing your wallet. Just chalk it up to bad luck.
chalk something up	to add a mark or point to one's score	See also chalk something up (against someone).) Chalk another goal for Sarah. Chalk up another basket for the other side.
chalk something up	to write something on a chalkboard	Let me chalk this formula up so you all can see it. I'll chalk up the formula.
chalk something up (to something)	to recognize something as the cause of something else	We chalked her bad behavior up to her recent illness. I had to chalk up the loss to inexperience.
chalk something up to something else	to decide that instead of being upset about something bad that you have done or that has happened, you will learn from it 'I'm so ashamed	I let him take advantage of me.' 'Don't be so hard on yourself. Just put it down to experience.'
chalk something up to something else	to say that something is caused by something else	She doesn't even bother to say thank you, but I just chalk it up to bad manners and try not to let it bother me.
chalk up	to achieve something good	The company has CHALKED UP its highest ever profits.
chalk up something	to record something special	Many banks chalked up large profits from their loans to internet companies.
chalk up to	explain the reason for a problem	They CHALKED the poor sales UP TO the lower numbers of tourists visiting this year.

chalk out	to cut a line of cocaine	He went into the toilets to CHALK a line OUT.
chalk something out	to draw a picture of something in chalk, especially to illustrate a plan of some type	The coach chalked the play out so the players could understand what they were to do. Our team captain chalked out the play.
chalk something out	to explain something carefully to someone, as if one were talking about a chalk drawing	She chalked out the details of the plan over the phone.

challenge somebody on something	to dispute someone's statement, remarks, or position	I think Fred is wrong, but I won't challenge him on his estimate.

challenge somebody to something	to dare someone to do something; to invite someone to compete at something	I challenge you to a round of golf. Jerry challenged us to a debate of the issues.

champ at the bit	to be ready and anxious to do something	The kids were champing at the bit to get into the swimming pool. The dogs were champing at the bit to begin the hunt.
champ at the bit	to be very eager	The phone companies are champing at the bit to expand into these new lines of business.
champ at the bit	to be very keen to start an activity or to go somewhere	By the time he arrived to pick us up we were champing at the bit with impatience. I'm not sure if he's ready for extra responsibility yet, but he's chafing at the bit.
champ at the bit	[for a horse] to bite at its bit, eager to move along	Dobbin was champing at the bit, eager to go.

chance upon	to find something by accident	I CHANCED UPON a very rare book in car boot sale and bought it for 65p.

change of !

change over	to change a system	The Irish CHANGED OVER to using kilometers in 2005.

channel something in	to divert something, such as energy, money, effort, into something	The government channeled a great deal of money into rebuilding the inner part of the city. I can't channel any more of our workforce into this project.
channel something in	to divert water or other liquid through a channel into something	The farmer channeled the irrigation water into the field.

channel something off	to drain off or waste energy, money, effort, etc.	Unemployment channeled their resources off. The war channeled off most of the resources of the country.
channel something off	to drain off water or some other liquid through a channel	The front yard is flooded, and we will have to channel the water off. Let's channel off the water before it gets too deep.

charge (something) for something	to set a price in payment for something	You are charging too much for this. You really shouldn't charge for it at all.
charge somebody for something

charge at something/somebody	to move quickly forward to attack someone or something	The elephant charged at the hunter. I was afraid that the water buffalo was going to charge our vehicle.

charge down on something/somebody	[for an animal or vehicle] to race or move quickly against someone or something	The angry elephant charged down on the hunters. The speeding truck charged down on the small shed.

charge in (to some place)	to move quickly or run wildly into a place	The people charged into the store on the day of the sale. They all charged in trying to be first in line.

charge off	to move quickly or run away	He got angry and charged off. Juan charged off to talk to the boss.
charge something off as something	to consider something a legitimate expense and deduct it from one's taxes; to assign something to the tax loss category in accounting	I will have to charge this off as a loss. Try to charge it off as a business expense.

charge out (of some place)	to move quickly or stomp out of some place	Carol charged out of the house, trying to catch Sally before she got on the bus. Juan got mad and suddenly charged out.

charge up	to put electricity into a battery	I need to CHARGE my phone UP- the battery's dead.
charge somebody up	to excite someone; to make a person enthusiastic about something (See also charged up)	The speaker charged up the crowd. He reread the report, hoping to charge himself up enough to make some positive comments.
charge something up to something/somebody	to place the cost of something on the account of someone or a group (Also without up)	I will have to charge this up to your account. Do you have to charge this to my account? Are you ready to charge up the total to my bill?

charge somebody with something	to order someone to do a particular task	The president charged him with organizing the meeting. We charged her with locating new office space.
charge somebody with something	to place criminal charges against someone	The police charged Max with robbery.
charge something/somebody (with) something	to make someone or a group pay the cost of something	I will have to charge Bill with the cost of repairs. The manager will charge your account with about forty dollars.
charge with	to accuse somebody of a crime	She was arrested in customs last night and has been CHARGED WITH smuggling.

charge something against something	to debit or assign the cost of something against something	Can I charge this item against the entertainment account? Don't even try to charge it against your business expenses.

charge something on something	to demand the payment of interest or a penalty on something	They charged an enormous amount of interest on the loan. The bank charged a penalty on the late payment.
charge something on something	to put the cost of something on a credit card or credit account	I would like to charge this purchase on my credit card. What card do you want to charge it on?

charm somebody with something	to enchant or fascinate someone with something	He charmed her with stories of his house on the beach. She charmed him with her bright smile.

charm off somebody !

chase around after something/somebody	to look here and there for something; to seek someone or something in many different places	I don't want to have to spend a whole day chasing around after exotic ingredients for this recipe of yours. I chased around after Roger and never found him.

chase down	to try hard to find or get something	The press CHASED us DOWN when the story broke.
chase something/somebody down	to track down and seize someone or something	Larry set out to chase the pickpocket down. The police chased down the suspect.

chase off	to force a person to leave or go away	The dog CHASED he postal worker OFF.

chase somebody (or an animal) in(to) some place	to drive someone or an animal into a place of confinement	They chased all the cattle into the corral. The cowboys chased in the cattle.

chase something/somebody around	to follow someone or something around in pursuit (There is an implication that the person or thing pursued is attempting to elude whatever is in pursuit)	The dog chased us around in play. It chased around all the children.

chase something/somebody up	to seek someone or something out; to look high and low for someone or something	I will chase Tom up for you. I will try to chase up a buyer for your car.
chase something/somebody up something	to drive someone or an animal up something, such as a tree, a hill, a cliff, etc.	The ranchers chased the mountain lion up a tree. The bull chased the rodeo clown up into the stands.
chase up	to ensure that someone remembers to do something	The librarian is CHASING me UP about my overdue books.
chase up	to try to get more information about the progress of something	I did not get a reply so I have been CHASING them UP.
chase up	to try to get someone to pay a bill, debt, etc.	I CHASED her UP as she hadn’t paid for several months.

chase something/somebody(away) from some place	to drive someone or something away from or out of a place	The police sirens chased the thief from the building. We chased away all the children from the pond.

chat about something/somebody	to talk idly or informally about someone or something	We need to chat about Molly. I want to chat about your expenditures a little.

chat up	to talk to someone you are sexually interested in to get them interested in you	He spent the whole night CHATTING her UP.

chatter (away)	to talk incessantly or noisily to or at someone or something	The parrot was chattering away at its reflection in the mirror. The kids were chattering away, Stop chattering at me!
chatter (away)	[for a small animal, such as a squirrel] to try to scare off someone or something	The little squirrel chattered away at the crow. The crow came close and the squirrel chattered away again.

chatter about something/somebody	to talk idly and actively about someone or something	All the guests were chattering about something or other. People are chattering about you and Claire. Do you want to know what they are saying?

cheat at something	to use deception while competing [against someone]	They say she cheats at cards. The mob is likely to cheat at getting the contracts.

cheat on	to be sexually unfaithful	She CHEATED ON me with my friend.
cheat on (somebody)	to be unfaithful (to one's husband, wife, girlfriend, etc.)
cheat on somebody	If you cheat people, they will not continue to do business with you, and so your business will fail	Customer: You charged me for ten artichokes, but you only gave me nine. Grocer: Too bad. You should have counted them before you paid for them. Customer: Cheats never prosper, you know.
cheat on somebody	to commit adultery; to be unfaithful to one's spouse or lover	"Have you been cheating on me?" cried Mrs. Franklin. He was caught cheating on his wife.
cheat on somebody	to have a sexual relationship with a person while you are married to someone else or are having a relationship with someone else	It's hard to believe that he cheated on you.

cheat out of	to get money from someone under false pretences	I hate him. He CHEATED me OUT OF ?100.
cheat somebody out of something	to get something from someone by deception	Are you trying to cheat me out of what is rightfully mine? She cheated herself out of an invitation because she lied about her affiliation.

check by	to visit a place to check something	We CHECKED BY the office to see if the stuff was ready.

check in	to arrive and register at a hotel or airport	We will get the hotel keys when we check in.
check in	to register at a hotel or airport. To register on arriving at a hotel or at the airport	For security reasons, you have to check in two hours before your flight. They CHECKED IN at the Ritz yesterday.
check in/into	to enter or register at a hotel, airport, etc.	Guests can only check in after 11 AM.

check into	register on arriving at a hotel or at the airport	They CHECKED INTO the Ritz yesterday.

check off	to mark something on a list as done	She CHECKED OFF the candidates' names as they arrived.

check out	to die	She CHECKED OUT last week; the funeral's tomorrow.
check out	to investigate or verify.	I don't know if the address is still valid. I'll check it out.
check out	to pay one's bill and leave (a hotel)	Is Mr. Bush still at the hotel? No, he checked out this morning. She CHECKED OUT and took a cab to the airport.
check out	to investigate, take a look at	Hey, check out this website - it's really cool! I will check it out.
check out	to leave a hotel, airport, etc.	My wife checked out of the hospital yesterday. You have to check out of the hotel before 11:00 AM.
check out of	to settle up and pay before leaving a hotel	Guests have to CHECK OUT OF the hotel before midday.
check out somebody/something; check something/somebody out	to look at (informal)	Check out the crazy hair on that guy!
check somebody/something out	look at carefully, investigate	The company checks out all new employees.

check over	to check something very carefully	We CHECKED the contract OVER before signing it.

check up (on)	There is no need to check up on me.

cheer for something/somebody	to give a shout of encouragement for someone or something	Everyone cheered for the team. I cheered for the winning goal.

cheer on	to encourage	Their CHEERED their team ON throughout the match.
cheer something/somebody on	to encourage someone or a group to continue to do well, as by cheering	We cheered them on, and they won. We cheered on the team. Sam cheered Jane on.

cheer somebody to !

cheer up	to be less unhappy	Come on, CHEER UP; it isn't all bad, you know.
cheer up	to become happier	She cheered up when she heard the good news.
cheer up	to become cheerful; To cheer someone up - To make someone feel better	A good song will always cheer me up when I'm feeling down.
cheer up (somebody)	to feel happier, or to cause someone to feel happier	We've cheered up a lot since we found a great place to swim. Jack stopped at her apartment every day to bring her food and cheer her up.
cheer up (somebody)	to shout and clap a lot in order to support someone	The team captain was cheered to the echo when he was presented with the cup.
cheer somebody up	to make happier	I brought you some flowers to cheer you up.
cheer somebody up	to make a sad person happy	When Bill was sick, Ann tried to cheer him up by reading to him. Interest rates went up, and that cheered up all the bankers.

chew (away) at something	to gnaw or chew something for a period of time	The puppy chewed away at the leather belt all night.

chew on	thinks about something carefully before deciding	I'll CHEW ON it for a day or two and let you know what I think.chew on something/somebody
chew on something/somebody	to gnaw at something	The dog was chewing on my shoe. Go to chew something over.

chew out	to criticize someone angrily	They CHEWED him OUT for being late.
chew somebody out	to scold someone	The sergeant chewed the corporal out; then the corporal chewed the private out. The boss is always chewing out somebody.

chew over	to think about an issue	He asked for a few days to CHEW the matter OVER before he made a final decision.
chew something over	to talk something over; to discuss something and chew on something; to think something over.	We can chew it over at lunch. Why don't we do lunch sometime and chew over these matters? I'll have to chew it over for a while. I'm not sure now. I have to chew on all this stuff for a day or two. Then I'll get back to you.

chew something away	to gnaw something off; to gnaw at something until it's all gone	You can see what's left of it. Most of it has been chewed away by some animal. Your puppy chewed away the top of my shoe!

chew something off something	to bite or gnaw something off something	The puppy chewed the heel off my shoe. The puppy chewed off the heel and mangled the tongue.

chew something up	to grind food with the teeth until it can be swallowed	You had better chew that stuff up well. Please chew up your food well.
chew something/somebody up	to damage or ruin someone or something by pinching, grinding, biting, etc.	Stay away from the mower blade or it will chew you up. The lawn mower chewed up the flowers.
chew up	to cut into small pieces with your teeth	The puppy CHEWED UP the newspaper.
chew up	to damage something inside a machine	The video CHEWED my tape UP.

chicken out	to be too afraid to do something	I CHICKENED OUT of the bungee jumping when I saw how high it was.
chicken out	to initially want to do something, but then to not do it (to back out) due to fear	He was going to say something to the teacher, but he chickened out.
chicken out (of something)	to manage to get out of something, usually because of fear or cowardice	Come on! Don't chicken out now! Freddy chickened out of the plan at the last minute.
chicken out on somebody	to decide not to do something for or with someone	Come on, don't chicken out on me now! Ken chickened out on us and won't be going with us.

chide somebody for something	to tease or scold someone for doing something	Maria chided Gerald for being late.

chill out	to calm down	Before we can debate this matter, you're all gonna have to chill out. So sit down and stop bickering. Everybody cooled out after the emergency, and everything was fine.
chill out	to make someone feel very frightened	Just thinking about walking back through the dark streets sent chills down her spine.
chill out	to relax (Usage notes: often said to someone who is too excited or upset)	I'm staying at home and CHILLING OUT this evening. I like to come home from work, have dinner, chill out for a little bit, and then go to bed. I was worried about the kids, and he told me I should just chill out.

chill somebody to !

chime in	to contribute to a discussion	If it's OK, I'd like to CHIME IN because I think it's a good idea.
chime in	to add a comment to the discussion	Little Billy chimed in with a suggestion. He chimed in too late; the meeting was breaking up.
chime in	to enter a conversation, esp	by interrupting Everyone at the table began to chime in with their own ideas.

chip (away) at something	to break off tiny pieces of something little by little	The mason chipped away at the bricks. He chipped at the block of marble gently.

chip away	[for something] to break off or break away in small chips	The edges of the marble step chipped away over the years. Some of the stone figures had chipped away so badly that we couldn't see what they were.
chip away at	gradually reduce something to make it less powerful, effective, etc.	They have been CHIPPING AWAY AT his reputation ever since he took office.
chip something away (from something)	to break off tiny pieces of something	Many years of heavy use chipped the marble steps away. Someone chipped away little bits of the marble from that step.

chip in	to chip in (on something) (for someone) to contribute money toward a gift for someone	Would you please chip in on the present for Richard? Will you chip in for Randy?
chip in	to contribute some money	Everybody CHIPPED IN to pay the bill.
chip in	to contribute to a discussion	If I could CHIP IN, there are a couple of issues I'd like to raise.
chip in	to help	If everyone chips in we can get the kitchen painted by noon.
chip in	to contribute	We all have to chip in to buy Robert a present.
chip in	to contribute a small amount of money to a fund that will be used to buy something	Could you chip in a dollar on the gift, please?
chip in (something)	to pay for part of something with other people	They each chipped in $50 to take their parents out to dinner at a fine restaurant.
chip in (with something) (on something) (for somebody)	to contribute money for a gift for someone	Would you like to chip in with a little cash on a gift for Carol? I will chip in a little with you on a gift for Carol. Would you chip in with a few bucks for a gift for Carol? Would you chip a few bucks in on a gift for Carol? Would you care to chip in on a gift for the teacher? Yes, I'd be happy to chip in.

chip off the old block	a person (usually a male) who behaves in the same way as his father or resembles his father	John looks like his father - ;a real chip off the old block. Bill Jones, Jr., is a chip off the old block. He's a banker just like his father.

chisel in (on something/somebody)	to use deception to get a share of something	I won't chisel in on your deal. You had better not chisel in!

chisel somebody out of something	to get something away from someone by cheating	The scam tried to chisel pension money out of retired people.

choke (you) up	to become emotional or saddened so that one cannot speak	I choked up when I heard about the disaster. I was choking up, and I knew I would not be able to go on.
choke (you) up	to feel like crying	I choked up when I heard the news. He was beginning to choke up as he talked.
choke (you) up	to have difficulty speaking because you feel great emotion	During his farewell talk the coach got all choked up and started to cry.
choke somebody up	to cause someone to feel like starting to cry	Sad stories like that always choke me up. The movie was sad and it choked up most of the audience.
choke something up	to clog something up; to fill up and block something	Branches and leaves choked the sewer up. Rust choked up the pipes.
choke something up	to cough or choke until something that has blocked one's windpipe is brought up	The old man choked up the candy that was stuck in his windpipe. He choked up the chunk of meat and could breathe again.

choke off something	to suddenly stop the movement or progress of something	He told his staff to stop talking to the press, hoping to choke off the bad publicity.
choke somebody off	to prevent someone from continuing to talk (A figurative use; does not imply physical choking)	The opposition choked the speakers' debate off before they finished. Why did they want to choke off the speakers?
choke something off	to put an end to debate or discussion; to stop the flow of words from any source	Are they going to choke the debate off? The chair tried to choke off debate but failed.
choke something off	to restrict or strangle a living creature's windpipe	The tight collar on the cat tended to choke its airstream off. The collar choked off its airstream.

choke on something	to gag and cough on something stuck in the throat	The dog choked on the meat. The restaurant patron began to choke on a fish bone.

choke something back	to fight hard to keep something from coming out of one's mouth, such as sobs, tears, angry words, vomit, etc.	I tried to choke the unpleasant words back, but I could not. She choked back her grief, but it came forth nonetheless. I could hardly choke my tears back.

choke something down	to eat something, even though it is hard to swallow or tastes bad	The cough medicine tasted terrible, but I managed to choke it down. She choked down four of those pills all at once.

choose among something/somebody	to make a choice of a person or thing from a variety of possibilities	We will choose among the names on the list you gave us. I need to choose among the car models available.choose between !

choose from something/somebody	to make a selection from a group of persons or things	You will have to choose from these people only. Ron chose from the items in the catalog.

choose somebody as something	to select someone to be something	We will choose her as our representative. I chose Sam as my assistant.

choose something for somebody	to select something for someone, perhaps as a gift	I will probably choose flowers for your mother. I chose a funny card for his birthday.
choose something/somebody for something	to select someone or something for a particular purpose, office, title, etc.	I chose red for the color or the carpet. I will choose Alice for office manager.

choose up	to form groups or teams	We CHOSE UP teams before the game. We CHOSE UP to play the game.

chop (something/somebody) (up) (into something)	to cut something up into something smaller, perhaps with an axe or a cleaver	The butcher chopped up the beef loin into small fillets. I chopped up the onion into little pieces.
chop up	to cut into small pieces	I CHOPPED UP the vegetables for the soup.

chop down	to fell or cut down a tree	They CHOPPED DOWN most of the forest and now it looks like a desert.

chop somebody off	to stop someone in the middle of a sentence or speech (Abruptly, as if actually chopping or cutting)	I'm not finished. Don't chop me off! The moderator chopped off the speaker.

chop something back	to prune vegetation; to reduce the size of plants by cutting	Why don't you chop those bushes back while you have the shears out? Chop back the bushes, please.

chop something down	to cut down something, such as a tree, with an ax	Please don't chop my favorite tree down. Don't chop down this tree!
chop something down	to destroy something, such as a plan or an idea	The committee chopped the idea down in its early stages. They chopped down a great idea!

chortle about something/somebody	to chuckle or giggle about someone or something funny	I was chortling about Elaine's silly puppy for a long time. Elaine chortled about me and my dislike for cats.

chuck away	to dispose of something you no longer need or want	I CHUCKED AWAY all my old records years ago when CDs came out.

chuck in	to make a comment	I CHUCKED IN a few points at the end of the discussion.
chuck in	to quit something; to give up	I CHUCKED my job IN to go travelling. I was so depressed, I almost chucked it in. If I didn't have to keep the job to pay my bills, I'd have chucked it in long ago.

chuck out	to dispose of something you no longer need or want	I CHUCKED OUT some stuff I found in the fridge that had gone bad.
chuck somebody out of some place	to throw someone out of some place	The bouncer chucked the drunks out of the tavern. He chucks out about three drunks a night.

chuck somebody under !

chuck something away	to throw something away; to dispose of something	Would you please just chuck this garbage bag away? I don't want to chuck away any paper that's been used on only one side.
chuck something/somebody away	to push or shove someone or something out of the way quickly or roughly	She chucked the children away and ran to lock the door to protect them. He chucked away his clothes in a drawer. The rock star approached, and the guard chucked the teenagers away.

chuck something down	to eat something very quickly	Don't just chuck your food down. Enjoy it! I'll be with you as soon as I chuck down this hamburger.

chuck something into something	to pack something into something	She chucked her clothes into the suitcase and left. Just chuck in all your clothes and let's go.

chuck something over something	to throw something over something	Here, chuck this over the wall, and let's go. If you chuck another can over the fence, I will file a complaint.

chuck something up	to vomit something up	Don't give chocolate to the dog. It will just chuck it up later. The dog chucked up the grass it had eaten.
chuck up	to quit something	She didn't like the course, so she CHUCKED it UP after a few weeks.
chuck up	to vomit, be sick	He got ridiculously drunk and CHUCKED UP in the back of the minicab on the way home.

chuckle about something/somebody	to giggle about someone or something	I had to chuckle about Wally and his story about that broken-down old car. We chuckled over how angry Jed was.

chuckle with something	to giggle in some manner because one is gleeful or happy	He chuckled with unsuppressed mirth at the antics of the strangely dressed people. Sally chortled with glee at the thought of Ken slipping on the ice.

chug along	to move along at a steady pace	We chugged along for two hours but finally made it home.
chug along	[for a train engine] to labor along slowly (Steam locomotives made the sound "chug, chug.")	The train chugged along to the top of the hill.

churn out	to produce, usually quickly or in large amounts without much regard to quality	The government CHURNS OUT educational policies every few months.
churn something out	to produce something in large amounts and without much thought	Rosco churned out a book a year for 13 years and earned a lot of money doing it.
churn something out	to produce something in large numbers, perhaps carelessly	We churn toys out by the thousand. This factory can churn out these parts day and night.
churn something out	to stir up a liquid; to mix up material suspended in water	The oars of our boat churned the shallow water up, leaving little clouds of sediment in our wake. The oars churned up the mud.

circle around (over something/somebody)	[for a plane or a bird] to fly around above someone, something, or some place	The plane circled around over us for a few minutes and then went on. It circled around over the field.

circulate among something/somebody	to move at random within a gathering of people or things	Karen circulated among the guests, serving drinks. The guests circulated among the various rooms in the house.

circulate something through something	to route something through something; to make something travel through something	Walter circulated the memo from the boss through the department. I would like for you to circulate this through the members of the club.
circulate through something	to move through a group of people or an area, from person to person	Rumors circulated through the department about Tom's retirement. Please circulate through the room and hand out these papers to each person.
circulate through something	[for a fluid in a closed system of pipes or tubes] to flow through the various pathways of pipes and tubes	Cold water circulates through the entire building and keeps it cool. Blood circulates through the veins and arteries, reaching all parts of the body.

cite somebody for something	to charge or arraign someone for breaking a law; to issue a legal citation to someone for breaking a law	An officer cited the driver for driving too fast. The housing department cited the landlord for sanitary violations.
cite somebody for something	to honor someone for doing something; to give someone a citation of honor for doing something good	The town council cited her for bravery. They cited Maria for her courageous act.

clag up	to make something sticky	His arteries are CLAGGED UP because he eats so much saturated fat.

claim something for something	to make a claim for money in payment for damages	David claimed one thousand dollars for the damaged car. She claimed a lot of money for the amount of harm she experienced.
claim something for something/somebody	to declare rights to or control of something for someone, or that something is the property of someone, a group, or a nation	The small country claimed the mountainous area for itself. Roger claimed all the rest of the ice cream for himself.

clam up	to be quiet, refuse to speak	Everybody CLAMMED UP when the Principal entered.
clam up	to refuse to talk or answer; refuse to speak	Every time I think he's going to tell me what's bothering him, he just clams up. When the teacher arrived, she clammed up.

clamber onto something	to climb onto something clumsily	The kids clambered onto the tractor and tried to start it. The wagon stopped and the kids clambered on. All the campers clambered into the bus.

clamber up (something)	to climb up something, especially in a particular way	The wall climbers clambered up the wall quickly. Tricia clambered up the ladder and cautiously went down again.

clamor against something/somebody	to raise a great outcry against someone or something	The protestors clamored against the mayor. The citizens clamored against the new taxes.

clamor for something/somebody	to raise a great outcry for someone or something	Everyone was clamoring for Mark. They just loved him. The children were clamoring for ice cream.

clamp down (on something/somebody)	to become strict with someone; to become strict about something	Because Bob's grades were getting worse, his parents clamped down on him. The police have clamped down on speeders in this town.
clamp down on	to act strictly to prevent something	The government decided to clamp down on smoking in public areas.
clamp down on	to restrict or try to stop something	The governments are CLAMPING DOWN ON antisocial behaviour.
clamp down on something	to act to stop or limit something	Police here have finally clamped down on speeding.
clamp down on something	to impede or block someone or something; to restrain or restrict someone	Fred had to put the clamps on Tony, who was rushing his work too much. Tony is getting a little anxious. Time to put on the clamps.

clamp something on(to) something	to press or squeeze something onto something else	Clamp this board onto the workbench. Clear a place near the edge of the table, and then clamp on the meat grinder.

clap somebody in(to) some place	to shove or push someone into a place, usually jail	Be good or the sheriff will clap you into jail. The cops clapped Max into a cell.

clap something on(to) something	to slap or attack something onto something else	The police came and clapped a sign onto the car saying it was abandoned. Do not clap any signs on my fence.

clap something out	to clap the rhythmic beat of something in order to learn it (Said of music)	All right, now. Let's clap the rhythm out. We'll clap out the rhythm in time with our singing.

clap something together	to slap two things, usually hands, together so that they make a noise	The boys clapped their hands together whenever a goal was scored. One of the orchestra members clapped two blocks of wood together periodically, making a very loud noise.

clash (with somebody) (over something/somebody)	to fight or argue with someone about someone or something	The customer clashed with the pharmacist over the price of the medicine. I clashed over my pay increase with the school principal.

clash against something	to wage a battle or attack against someone or something	The troops clashed against the enemy. We clashed against the opposite side for over three days.

clash with something	[for the color of something] to conflict with or mismatch another color	This red carpet clashes with the purple of the drapes. This red does not clash with purple. It looks gorgeous.

clasp something/somebody to something	to hold on to and press someone or something to a part of one's body	He clasped a wad of cloth to the bleeding wound. She clasped the child to her breast and hugged him.

class something/somebody with something/somebody	to group someone or something with someone or something considered similar	Please don't class this car with anything you've ever driven before. The sportswriters classed this team with some of the all-time best in history.

clatter around	to move around among things, making noise	Stop clattering around! It's late. I wish you would not clatter those dishes around.

claw back	to get money back	The new tax will CLAW BACK what the government has given out in grants.
claw back	to retake possession with difficulty	The opposition parties are trying to CLAW BACK the voters they lost in the last election.

claw something off something/somebody	to rip or tear something off from someone or something	We saw a guy clawing his burning clothes off himself. He clawed off his burning clothes.

clean out	cause someone to spend all their money	The holiday CLEANED me OUT- I'm broke till the end of the month.
clean out	to tidy up thoroughly and throw away unwanted things	I really must CLEAN the study OUT; there's stuff all over the floor and piles of paper everywhere.
clean out	to completely remove everything (from somewhere)	I cleaned out my locker before I left for the summer.

clean (something/somebody) up (somethig/somebody)	to tidy, clean	Please clean up your bedroom before you go outside. CLEAN this bedroom UP; it's a disgrace.

clear away	to leave a place	We were told to CLEAR AWAY from the scene of the accident.
clear away	to remove or tidy	After dinner, I CLEARED AWAY the plates and dishes. I'd better CLEAR AWAY the mess before leave.

clear off	to leave somewhere quickly	As soon as the trouble started, we CLEARED OFF.

clear out	to leave somewhere	I told them to CLEAR OUT because they were making so much noise.
clear out	to tidy up thoroughly and throw away unwanted stuff	I spent the whole weekend CLEARING OUT the attic as it was full of papers and other junk.

clear somebody of something	to show that a person is innocent; to exonerate someone of a crime (See also clear someone's name)	An investigation cleared me of any wrongdoing. They were unable to clear themselves of the charges.

clear up	to cure or recover from an infection	I took the antihistamines and the rash CLEARED UP right away.
clear up	to explain	Could you CLEAR these points UP before we go any further?
clear up	to improve (weather)	The skies CLEARED UP and the sun came out.
clear up	to become sunny (weather)	Wow, the weather really cleared up!
clear up	to make something clear, understandable	I didn't understand at first, but he cleared everything up for me.

cleave to somebody	to be sexually faithful, usually to one's husband (Biblical. As in the traditional marriage ceremony, "And cleave only unto him")	She promised to cleave only to him for the rest of her life.

click through	to open an advertisement on the internet	Only a tiny fraction of users ever bother CLICKING THROUGH the banner adverts.

click with somebody	[for someone or something new] to catch on with someone; to become popular or friendly with someone very quickly	The new product clicked with consumers and was an instant success. I clicked with Tom the moment I met him.
click with somebody	[for something] to be understood or comprehended by someone suddenly	His explanation clicked with Maggie at once.

climb down	to accept that you are wrong and change your position	The Prime Minister had to CLIMB DOWN over his tax proposals because there was so much opposition from the members of his own party.
climb down (from something)	to dismount something; to come down from something	The child climbed down from the roof. Please climb down!

climb on(to) something	to ascend to or mount something	I climbed onto the side of the truck. Tommy climbed on the truck.

climb out (of something)	to get, crawl, or move out of something	He climbed out of the wreckage and examined himself carefully for injuries. He climbed out very carefully.

climb up (something)	to ascend something; to scale something (Fixed order)	The hikers took two hours to climb up the hill. The adventurer tried to climb up the side of the cliff.

cling to something/somebody	to hold on tight to someone or something	The child clung tightly to his mother. As she drifted in the sea, she clung to a floating log.
cling to something/somebody	to hold onto the thought or memory of someone or something; to have a strong emotional attachment to or dependence on someone or something	Her immigrant parents clung to the old ways. Harold clung to the memory of his grandmother.

clip something from something	to cut something out of or away from something; to cut something off something	I clipped the picture from the magazine. I clipped the straggly hairs from his head.

clip something on(to) something/somebody	to attach something to someone or something with a clip	I clipped a little name tag onto him before I put him on the plane. I clipped on a name tag.

cloak something/somebody in secrecy	to hide or conceal someone or something in secrecy	Patrick cloaked his activities in secrecy. The agents cloaked the spy in secrecy, making her identity a mystery.

clock in	to record one's time of arrival, usually by punching a time clock	What time did she clock in? She forgot to clock in today.
clock somebody in	to observe and record someone's time of arrival	The manager says he clocked you in at noon. That's a bit late, isn't it?

clock out	to record one's time of departure, usually by punching a time clock	I will clock out just before I go home. Jim clocked out early Tuesday to go to the doctor.
clock somebody out	to observe and record someone's time of departure	Jane clocked herself out and went home.

clock something up	to reach a goal that is worthy of being recorded (Typically sports journalism; Compare this with chalk something up)	Patrick clocked a fantastic number of points up this year. He sure clocked up a lot of goals.
clock something up	to record the accumulated hours, miles, etc., of some device or machine (The recording is usually done by a meter of some type such as a speedometer, an elapsed time meter, etc.	She must have clocked two hundred flying hours up in six months. She clocked up a lot of hours.

clock something/somebody at something	to measure the speed of someone or something to be a certain figure	I clocked the runner at a record speed for the race. Karen clocked the race at three minutes flat.

clog somebody up	[for some kind of food] to constipate someone	This cheese clogs me up. I can't eat it. This food clogs up people who eat it.
clog something up	[for something] to obstruct a channel or conduit	The leaves clogged the gutters up. They clogged up the gutter.
clog up	to block, slow movement right down	The traffic's so bad the roads get CLOGGED UP at rush hour.

clog something with something	to block or obstruct a channel or conduit with something	The neighbors clogged the creek with their brush and leaves. Please don't clog the drain with garbage.

close at hand	to within reach; handy	I'm sorry, but your letter isn't close at hand. Please remind me what you said in it. When you're cooking, you should keep all the ingredients close at hand.

close down	to close a shop, branch or business permanently	The banks have CLOSED DOWN a lot of branches in villages over the last few years.
close down	to stop an opponent being a challenge	He CLOSED the player DOWN and stopped him being a threat.
close down	to stop operating (company, restaurant, cinema ...)	The shop was closed down by the police. When the factory closed down, the employees lost their jobs. he restaurant was closed down by the health department.
close down	to close a place permanently	I was sad to find out that they're going to close down my favorite restaurant.

close in	to approach, get near	The police were CLOSING IN so they decided to try to make a break.
close in	to surround, envelop	The fog CLOSED IN and we couldn't see two yards in front of us.
close in	to approach, come close (physically)	The rebels were closing in on the city.
close in (on) + person	She closed in on them quietly.
close in on/upon	to get near someone	The police were CLOSING IN ON the gang. he police were CLOSING IN UPON the gang.

close off	to block a place to stop people entering	The police CLOSED the road OFF after the explosion.

close on	to get nearer	She is CLOSING ON the leader of the race.

close out	to bring something to an end	We CLOSED OUT the meeting early and went home.
close out	to close or stop using	She CLOSED OUT the account and changed to another bank.
close out	to ignore, exclude	They always CLOSE me OUT of their plans.

close (with somebody) !

close up	to completely close something	They CLOSE UP the building after everyone has left.
close up	to join together	The leaves CLOSE UP when it rains.
close up	to move closer together	They CLOSED UP when they saw the gang coming towards them.

closet somebody with somebody	to put someone into a private room with someone else for the purposes of conducting business	She closeted herself with the president and finally, once and for all, had her say.

clothe somebody in something	to dress someone in something	She clothed her children in the finest garments. He clothed himself in his tuxedo for the wedding.

cloud over	to get very cloudy	The morning started bright and warm, but it CLOUDED OVER around midday and poured with rain.
cloud over	[for something once clear] to become opaque; to become clouded	My vision seemed to cloud over, and I could see very little. The mirror clouded over as the steam rose from the hot water in the sink.
cloud over	[for the sky] to fill with clouds; [for the sun] to be obscured by clouds	It was beginning to cloud over, so we went inside. The sky clouded over and it began to get chilly.

cloud up	[for someone] to grow very sad, as if to cry	Whenever Mary got homesick, she'd cloud up. She really wanted to go home.
cloud up	[for the sky] to get cloudy, as if it were going to rain	All of a sudden it clouded up and began to rain. It usually clouds up at the top of the mountain.

clown about	to behave stupidly or waste time	The students were CLOWNING ABOUT all lesson.

clown around	to behave stupidly or waste time	I couldn't concentrate because they were CLOWNING AROUND all afternoon.
clown around (with somebody)	to join with someone in acting silly; [for two or more people] to act silly together	The boys were clowning around with each other. The kids are having fun clowning around.

clue somebody in	to give someone information they need or want	I asked David to clue us in on what needed to be done first. He hung the painting to clue in visitors that this was a different kind of place.
clue somebody in	to have no knowledge of or no information about something (often + about)	How much do houses cost in Yorkshire? I haven't got a clue. Internet researchers in the 1980s didn't have a clue about the exciting online landscapes of the future.
clue somebody in (on something)	to inform someone of something	Please clue me in on what's been going on. Clue in those guys before it's too late.

cluster around something/somebody	[for a group of people or things] to bunch together, surrounding someone or something	The birds clustered around the chimney top to keep warm. The kids clustered around the police officer.
cluster something/somebody around something/somebody	to bunch people or things together around someone or something	She clustered the cups around the punch bowl. Karen clustered the children around the fire.

clutch (up)	to become very tense and anxious; to freeze with anxiety	I have been known to clutch before a big game. Just relax, play your game, and you won't clutch!
	
clutch at something/somebody	to grasp at or grab for someone or something	He clutched at the roots of the trees along the bank, but the flood swept him away. Karen clutched at me, but lost her grip.

clutch something/somebody to something	to grasp and hold someone or something to something	She clutched the baby to her bosom. Lee clutched the ice pack to his head.

clutter something up	to mess something up; to fill something or some place up with too many things	Heaps of newspapers cluttered the room up and made it a fire hazard. Who cluttered up this house?

co-opt somebody into something	to convince someone of a differing view to adopt one's position or philosophy	They tried to co-opt the students into rioting. There is no point in trying to co-opt them into it. They are too clever.

coach somebody for something	to train or drill someone in preparation for doing something	Elliott coached his roommate every night for the contest. Juan coached Alice for the play.

coalesce into something	[for two or more things] to blend or fuse and become one thing	The fading colors coalesced into a gray blur. In the distance, the crowd coalesced into a single blob.

coast along	to roll or move along with little or no effort	We just coasted along on the flat prairie. We coasted along until we came to the bottom of the hill.

coat something/somebody with something	to put a layer of something on someone or something	Her manager coated her with grease before she began the Channel swim. The cook coated the chicken with batter and dropped it into the hot fat.

coax (somebody or an animal) in (to something)	to urge or persuade someone or an animal into doing something	We coaxed her into singing for us. Janet coaxed the dog into sitting up and begging.
coax (somebody or an animal) in (to something)	to urge or persuade someone or an animal to go into something	We coaxed the lion into the cage with fresh meat. The teacher coaxed the child into the kindergarten classroom.

coax (somebody or an animal) out of something	to urge or persuade someone or an animal to come out of something	She coaxed the puppy out of the carton. Janet coaxed the child out of the closet with a promise of a piece of cake.
coax (somebody or an animal) out of something	to urge or persuade someone or an animal to give something up	He almost wouldn't sell it, but I coaxed him out of it. I coaxed the cat out of the canary it was holding in its mouth.

coax somebody to do something	to urge someone to do something	The kids coaxed her to let them go swimming. Can I coax you to try some of this pie?

cobble something up	to make something or put something together hastily or carelessly	Who cobbled this thing up? Take it apart and start over. The kids cobbled up their model planes badly. It looks like you cobbled together that report just last night.

cock up	ruin or spoil something	It was so easy, but he managed to COCK everything UP.

coerce (somebody or an animal) into something	to force or compel someone or an animal to do something	I could not coerce her into coming along with us. You cannot coerce a cat into anything.

coexist with something/somebody	to exist agreeably or tolerably with or at the same time as someone or something	I decided that I would have to coexist with your policies, despite my objections. It is hard for cats to coexist with dogs.

cogitate on something	to think about something	Cogitate on this idea for a while. I will have to cogitate on this for a few days. I'll get back to you.

cohabit with somebody	to copulate with someone	She had been cohabiting with him, and she admitted it in court.
cohabit with somebody	[for an unmarried person] to live with a person of the opposite sex	They were cohabiting with one another for several years.

coil (itself) around something/somebody	[for something or an animal] to wrap itself around someone or something	The monkey's tail coiled itself around the branch. The huge python coiled around poor Roger.

coil (itself) up	[for something] to wrap or roll itself into a coil	The snake coiled itself up, trying to hide. It coiled up, ready to strike.
coil (itself) up into something	[for something] to wrap or twist itself into a particular shape	The frightened snaked coiled itself up into a knot. The spring coiled up into its original shape.
coil something up	to roll or twist something into a coil	Maria coiled the strip of stamps up and put them in the little dispenser. Please coil up the rope.

coincide with something	to agree with or match something; [for something] to happen at the same time as something else	This pattern coincides with the pattern we see in the carpet. My birthday sometimes coincides with Thanksgiving Day.

collaborate with something/somebody	to work together on something with someone or a group	I will collaborate with Amy on this research. I was forced to collaborate with a totally uninformed committee.

collapse into something	to fall down into something with suddenness, as if out of energy	She was so tired, she collapsed into the chair. Juan collapsed into a chair and fell fast asleep.
collapse into something	[for someone] to fall into a particular kind of despair	The poor man collapsed into a deep depression. Scott collapsed into his own personal brand of grieving.

collapse under something/somebody	to cave in under the weight of someone or something	The grandstand collapsed under the weight of the spectators. The bridge collapsed from the force of the flood.

collate something with something	to compare or match something with something	Try to collate these figures with that other list. I can't collate these notations with the spreadsheet they go with.

collect for something/somebody !

collect around something/somebody	to gather around someone or something; to accumulate around someone or something	The guests collected around the table that held the birthday cake. The children collected around the birthday boy.

collect on something	to take or receive payment on a debt or promise	I have come to collect on your debt. I will have to assign your account to an agency to collect on this bill.

collect something from somebody	to gather up something from someone; to gather money from someone	I'm here to collect used clothing from you. She is out collecting donations from the neighbors.
collect something from somebody	to take a medical specimen from a person	I am here to collect a urine specimen from the patient. The phlebotomist collected the specimen from Todd and left the room.

collect something up	to gather something up	Collect your things up, and let's go. I collected up all my luggage and left.

collide with something/somebody	to crash with or bump into someone or something	The bus collided with a truck. Maria collided with Alice, but neither was hurt.

collude with something/somebody	to plot or conspire with someone or a group	The CEO colluded with the board of directors in the stock scandal.

colour (color) up	to blush	He COLOURED (COLORED) UP when he was caught stealing from the till.

comb something for something/somebody	to look all over or all through something for a particular person or thing	The police combed the entire neighborhood for the criminals. I combed the entire house for the missing paper.

comb something out of something	to remove substances or knots and snarls from something by combing	I had to comb the gum out of her hair. It took me over an hour to comb out the gum.

comb through something	to look through something, examining it thoroughly	I combed through all my belongings, looking for the lost papers. The vet combed through the dog's coat, looking for tick bites.

combine something against something/somebody	to join something together in opposition to someone or something	We will combine forces against the enemy. Our game plan combined our various talents against the opposite team.

combine something with something	to mix something with something else	I want to combine the red flowers with the pink ones for a bouquet. First, combine the eggs with the sugar.

come about	to happen, occur, to be achieved	The meeting CAME ABOUT because both sides were sick of fighting.

come across	to agree to have sex with someone	I was surprised when she CAME ACROSS on the first night.
come across	to appear, seem, make an impression	The candidate came across as a dynamic person during the interview.
come across	to find by accident	I CAME ACROSS my old school reports when I was clearing out my desk.
come across	to find/meet by chance	Julie came across some photographs of her grandparents in the attic. I came across some of my old photos when I was cleaning my room.
come across	the way other people see you	He CAME ACROSS as shy because he spoke so quietly.
come across something	to find unexpectedly	I came across these old photos when I was tidying the closet.

come after	to follow

come along	to accompany someone	I'm going to the mall - You can come along if you like.
come along	to progress	How's your project coming along.

come apart	to break into pieces	It CAME APART when I tried to lift it off the floor and I had to glue it back together.
come apart	to separate	The top and bottom come apart if you pull hard enough.

come around	I knew he would come around in the end.

come at	to attack; reach, discover

come back	to return	What time are you coming back tonight? Will the good old days ever come back?

come before	to appear in court charged with a crime or offence	He CAME BEFORE the court on charges of speeding.

come by	to acquire	How did you COME BY that Rolex?
come by	to pass, go past, visit; buy, get; to come over; to drop by; to pay a visit; to visit	I'll COME BY after work and see if you need any help. My aunt came by yesterday. He came by last night. What time should I come by?

come down	to fall (price)
come down	to rain	Just look at the rain COMING DOWN! I'm not going out in that.
come down	to travel	When you're next in London, COME DOWN and see us.
come down on	to criticize (heavily)	The management really CAME DOWN ON him for losing the contract. The president really came down on opposition party members for failing to pass the bill.
come down to	to mean, signify
come down with	to fall ill, fall sick with	She CAME DOWN WITH a virus.
come down with	to catch (an illness)	She came down with the flu.
come down with something	to become sick	My nephew came down with chicken pox this weekend.

come forth	to appear	The draft proposal CAME FORTH in April.
come forth with	to provide information	None of the witnesses CAME FORTH WITH an accurate description of the gang.

come forward	to present oneself	The police have asked any witnesses to come forward.
come forward	to volunteer for a task or to give evidence	The woman came forward with her husband's finger prints.

come from	to country or town where you were born	She COMES FROM Somalia. He comes from Egypt.
come from somewhere	to originate in	The art of origami comes from Asia.

come in	to arrive for flights	The plane CAME IN at two-thirty in the morning. Can't you just come in for a few minutes?
come in	to place or ranking in a competition, etc.	I did my best but CAME IN last but one in the race.
come in	to receive news, enter, be received; prove to be	Reports are just COMING IN of an assassination attempt on the President.
come in for	to receive, be object of (criticism)
come in out !

come into	to be important or relevant	Money doesn't COME INTO it; I simply will not do it under any circumstances.
come into	to inherit	She CAME INTO a lot of money when her grandmother died.

come of !

come off	to be successful	I was surprised when the plan CAME OFF so easily.
come off	to become detached
come off	when something breaks off	I picked it up and the handle CAME OFF in my hand.

come on	to encouragement	COME ON; don't give up now when you're so close to finishing.
come on	to start an illness	I've got a bit of a headache. I hope it doesn't mean I've got flu COMING ON.
come on	to start functioning (machines, etc.)	The central heating COMES ON automatically an hour before I have to get up.

come out	a secret is revealed	The details of the scandal CAME OUT in the press and she had to resign.
come out	to be published or otherwise available to the public	The band's new CD is COMING OUT in September.
come out	to become known, be published; be removed (stain)
come out	to disappear when washed	The red wine I spilt just will not COME OUT of the carpet no matter what I try to clean it with.
come out	to let people know that you are lesbian or gay	She CAME OUT at university and has been living with her partner, Jane, for the last couple of years.
come out	to release (a book, CD, etc.)	The Killers are coming out with a new CD.
come out	to reveal to others that one is gay or lesbian	He came out to his parents last summer.
come out	when the sun appears	It started cloudy, but then the sun CAME OUT and we all went to the park.
come out for something/somebody	to announce or reveal that one supports someone or something	The defense lawyers all came out for the judge's ruling. Roger came out for Lynn, who was running for mayor. I thought the mayor would come out in favor of more public housing.
come out in	to have a rash or similar skin problem	She CAME OUT IN a nasty rash after touching the poisonous plant by mistake.
come out with	to make something available	They have just COME OUT WITH a new version.
come out with	to say something publicly and unexpectedly	She CAME OUT WITH the answer when everyone was expecting it to remain unsolved.
come out/up !

come over	to come from a distance	Why don't you come over next weekend?
come over	to feel strange	I CAME OVER all faint and weak because my sugar level was too low. (British).

come round	to become conscious, wake up from anesthetic; recover consciousness	She CAME ROUND and learned that the operation had been a complete success.
come round	to change your opinion	Ate first she didn't like the idea, but she CAME ROUND to our way of thinking in the end.
come round	visit somebody

come through	to arrive (messages and information)	News is COMING THROUGH of a major accident on the M25, where freezing fog has been making driving conditions extremely dangerous.
come through	to communicate an emotion	The anger she felt COMES THROUGH.
come through	to produce a result	They promised they'd do it, but they haven't COME THROUGH yet.
come through with	to provide something needed	He didn't COME THROUGH WITH the money and they went bust.

come to	to amount to; arrive/reach a place
come to	to become conscious, wake up from anesthetic; to regain consciousness	She CAME TO an hour after the operation.
come to	to result in	The two men started arguing but they soon CAME TO blows and started fighting in earnest.
come to (somebody's or something's) !

come under !

come up	to appear; to be mentioned/discussed; (problem) arise	I'll be late home tonight because something's COME UP at work has to be ready for tomorrow morning.
come up	to rise (the sun)	The sun CAME UP just as we reached the outskirts of the town.
come up	to be raised (as a topic/issue during a conversation)	That issue never came up during out conversation.
come up against	to be faced with or opposed by; to be faced with (problems)	The project came up against a lot of criticism.
come up against	to encounter problems or difficulties (a problem, an opponent, etc.)	They CAME UP AGAINST a lot of opposition to their plans for an out-of-town supermarket development.
come up to	to match (a standard)
come up with	to think of a solution, excuse, etc.	Nobody could COME UP WITH a satisfactory explanation for the accident.
come up with (something)	to produce or create (an idea, a plan)	The writer came up with a great plot for his new book.

come upon	find/meet by chance	I CAME UPON the book in a little second-hand bookshop in Dorset.

come within !

comfortable with something/somebody

commence with something/somebody	to start a procedure affecting a number of people or things by choosing a particular person or thing first	Each meeting commences with a reading of the minutes of the last meeting. The doctor interviews with Lynn and took everyone else in the order in which they had arrived.

commend somebody for something	to praise someone for doing something	The committee commended Ralph for his good work.

commend something/somebody to something/somebody	to recommend or speak well of someone to someone or a group	I commend Walter to your organization. He would make a fine employee. We commended your organization to Martha, who may wish to become a member.

comment about something/somebody	to make a remark about someone or something	There is no need to comment upon this event. Please don't comment on Liz's problems.
comment on	The teacher commented on the effect of the election on the economy.

commiserate with somebody	to share one's misery with another person who is also miserable	I stopped by Bruce's house to commiserate with him on being laid off.

commit oneself on something	to agree to something; to promise or pledge to do something	I'm sorry, but I can't commit myself on this matter until I know more details.

commit oneself to something	to agree to something; to promise or pledge to do something	Yes, I will commit myself to the repair of the door frame. Will you commit yourself to finishing on time?
commit oneself to something	to promise to support and assist something	I can't commit myself to your cause at the present time. Maybe next month when I am less busy. She committed herself to being there on time.
commit oneself to something/somebody	to devote oneself to someone or something; to be faithful to someone or something	He committed himself to his wife. She settled down and committed herself to her job.
commit something/somebody to something	to pledge or assign someone or something to something	The boss committed Ralph to the task. I cannot commit any more money to your project.
commit to memory something	to make yourself remember something	I haven't got a pen to write down your phone number. I'll just have to commit it to memory.
commit to memory something	to marry or enter into an exclusive relationship with another person	Jane says she loves me, but she's not ready to commit to any one person. If you can't commit to me, then this relationship is over.
commit to memory something	to study something in order to make yourself remember it	If you want to learn a language well, you have to commit to memory long lists of vocabulary and grammatical rules. The boys read the holy book several times, committing it to memory.

commit something/somebody for something	to promise someone or something for a particular purpose or time	I can't commit myself for Friday night. We are unable to commit any more funds for your project.

commune with something	to experience wordless or spiritual communication with something	She went on long walks to commune with nature. He enjoyed going off on a retreat to commune with his inner self.

communicate about something	He communicated with his teacher about his grade.

communicate something to somebody	to say or write something to someone; to tell someone something	Will you please communicate my regards to her? I intend to communicate your request to the front office this morning.

communicate with somebody	He communicated with his teacher about his grade.
communicate with somebody	to correspond or talk with a person	I have to communicate with Wally first. As soon as I have communicated with Fred, I can give you an answer.
communicate with somebody	to make oneself understood with a person (Often used with a negative)	I just don't seem to communicate with Sam, no matter what I do. We just can't seem to communicate with each other.

commute between !

commute from some place	to travel to work from some place	I commute from way out in the country. Betty commutes from only a few miles away and will be here very soon.

commute something into something	to change something into something	No one, as it turns out, can commute lead into gold. I had hoped to commute this argument into a sensible discussion, but it is hopeless.

compare (something) to/with (something else)

compare notes on something/somebody	to share observations on someone or something	We took a little time to compare notes on our ancestors and have discovered that we are cousins.

compare something/somebody to something/somebody	to liken people or things to other people or things; to say that some people or things have the same qualities as other people or things (See the comment at compare someone or something with someone or something)	l can only compare him to a cuddly teddy bear. He compared himself to one of the knights of the round table.

compare something/somebody with something/somebody	to consider the sameness or difference of sets of things or people (This phrase is very close in meaning to compare someone or something to someone or something, but for some connotes stronger contrast)	Let's compare the virtues of savings accounts with investing in bonds. When I compare Roger with Tom, I find very few similarities. Please compare Tom with Bill on their unemployment records.
compare with/to	Please compare Clinton's presidency with Reagan's. He compared the food in the cafeteria with his mother's cooking.

compel somebody to do something	to force someone to do something; to drive someone to so something	You can't compel me to do that. She compelled herself to try, even though she was ill.

compensate for something	to counterbalance or counteract something; to make up for something	Your present kindness will not compensate for your previous rudeness.
compensate somebody for something	to pay someone [back] money for something	Don't worry. I will compensate you for your loss. Let us compensate you for your expenses.

compete against somebody	to contend against someone; to play against someone in a game or contest	I don't see how I can compete against all of them. She refused to compete against her own brothers.
compete against something	to struggle against something; to seem to be in a contest with something	It was hard to be heard. I was competing against the noise of construction. Please stop talking. I do not wish to compete against the audience when I lecture.

compete for something/somebody	to contend against or contest [someone] for someone or something; to struggle for someone or something [against a competitor]	They are competing for a lovely prize. Ed and Roger are competing for Alice's attention.

compete in something	to enter into a competition	I do not want to compete in that contest. Ann looked forward to competing in the race.

compete with something/somebody	to contend against someone, something, or a group; to play in a competition against someone, something, or a group	I can't compete with all this noise. We always compete closely with our crosstown rivals, Adams High School.

compile something from something	to make up something from something; to collect and consolidate something from something	She compiled a book of poetry from verses written by her friends. Lynn compiled a picture book from family photographs going back almost a century.

complain about	He complains about getting old. The students complained about the food in the cafeteria.
complain about something/somebody	to protest someone or something; to grouch about someone or something	Oh, stop complaining about the weather. You are always complaining about me.

complain of something	to moan and suffer from a disease; to report the symptoms of a disease or health condition	Kenneth complained of a headache and general weakness. The patient was complaining of a headache.

complain to (somebody) about (something)

compliment somebody on something	The teacher complimented Maria on the good work she did on the examination.
compliment somebody on something	to say something nice to someone about something connected to that person	I was pleased with Alice's work and complimented her on it. They complimented me on my new tie.

comply with something	to conform to something; to obey guidelines or regulations; to agree to something	I hope you decide to comply with our rules. I am happy to comply with your request.

comport with !

compose of

compound something with something	to unite some substance with another; to mix something with something else	Can this unpleasant medicine be compounded with something to make it palatable?

compress something into something	to form something into a shape by applying pressure	He compressed the mass of paper into a tight ball. The clay was compressed into the shape of a brick upon the application of pressure to the mold.
compress something into something	to squeeze or press something into something, such as a mold or container	We compressed the tomatoes into the jar. I cannot compress any more clothing into the suitcase.

comprised of something/somebody	to made up of someone or something (The use of of after comprise is regarded as bad grammar by some)	The committee was comprised of representatives from all areas. The dessert was comprised of a number of different delicious substances.

compromise on something/somebody (with somebody)	to reach agreement with someone on a disputed matter concerning someone or something; to make concessions to someone on some point concerning someone or something	I intend to compromise on this matter with them. Are you going to compromise with me on this issue?

compute something at something	to calculate the total of something to be a certain figure	I compute the total at nearly three thousand dollars. The tax department computed the penalty at an enormous amount.

conceal something/somebody from something/somebody	to hide someone or something from someone or something	Are you trying to conceal something from me? I cannot conceal Roger from the police. Wecould notconceal the present from mom.

concede something to something/somebody	to yield something to someone or a group; to grant something to someone or something	At midnight, Ronald conceded the election to his opponent.
concede to something/somebody	to yield to someone or a group; to give in to someone or a group	In the end we conceded to the demands of the petition. I will not concede to you.

conceive of something/somebody	to think of or invent the notion of someone or something	Who on earth ever conceived of doing this? Edison conceived of many very useful things that we now use every day.
conceive of something/somebody as something/somebody	to think of someone as being someone else; to think of something as being something else	I can't conceive of you as a pilot. I can conceive of this grassy spot as a very interesting setting for a cottage.

concentrate (up)on something/somebody	to focus one's thinking on someone or something; to think intensely about someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Please concentrate upon Jeff. He is the one we should discuss. Try to concentrate on your work more.

concentrate at some place	to gather thickly at a place	The moths concentrated at the window at night, attracted by the light. All the thirsty children concentrated at the water fountain.

concentrate something on something/somebody	to focus something on someone or something; to center on someone or something	I concentrate on getting experience. I want to concentrate on my major. Let's try to concentrate our efforts on finishing this job today. She concentrated her attention on Lynn.

concentrate something/somebody at something	to cause people or things to gather at a place; to cause people or things to convene or converge at a place	You shouldn't concentrate all the guards at one entrance. The general concentrated all the big guns at the entrance to the valley.

concern about/with something/somebody	to turn one's thoughts and consideration to someone or something	I hope you will concern yourself over your work a little more. Please don't concern yourself about me. I'll do okay.

concern somebody in something	to bring someone into some matter; to engage someone in something; to occupy someone with something	Don't concern Dave in our party planning. He doesn't know anything about entertaining. The wrong committee was concerned in this from the very beginning.

concern somebody with something/somebody	to busy someone with someone or something; to worry someone with thoughts of someone or something	I hope Jennifer does not concern herself with this matter. Try to concern him with something other than his work.

concur on something/somebody (with somebody)	to agree with someone about someone or something	I certainly do concur on this matter with all of you. I concur with you on Tom. We concurred with the committee on you as our choice for the job. We concurred on the plans with the council.

condemn somebody as something	to blame or judge someone as being something bad	The team condemned Larry as a traitor. Max was condemned as a common thief.

condemn somebody for something	to blame or judge someone for something or for having done something	I really can't condemn her for doing it. I would have done the same too. Don't condemn yourself for the accident. It was no one's fault.

condemn somebody to something	[for a judge] to sentence someone to something; to relegate someone to a particular punishment	By confessing, he condemned himself to many years in prison. I don't want to condemn you to a life of unpleasantness.

condense something (in)to something	to compress or reduce something to something; to shrink or abridge something into a smaller version	Condense this into half its original volume. You should condense this novel to a short story.

condescend to do something	to agree to do something that is humbling or belittling	I will not condescend to respond to that remark. "Will you condescend to join us for dinner?" teased Bob.
condescend to somebody	to talk down to someone; to treat people as if they were below oneself; to patronize someone	Please do not condescend to me. There is no need to condescend to the children. They are just small, not stupid.

condition something/somebody to something	to train or adapt someone or an animal to do something	I conditioned the dog to beg for a treat. Over the years, he had conditioned himself to run for hours at a stretch.
condition something/somebody to something	to train or adapt someone or an animal to something	We could never condition the cat to the finer points of domestication. I conditioned myself to the extreme cold.

conduct somebody away (from something/somebody)	to lead someone away from someone or something	The usher conducted the gentleman away from the front of the auditorium. Can you conduct Fred away from the area? Please conduct him away.

conduct somebody into something	to lead someone into something or some place	The usher conducted the gentleman into the hall. The host was pleased to conduct in the guest of honor.

conduct somebody out of something	to lead someone out of something or some place	The usher conducted the gentleman out of the hall. The cop conducted out the gang of rowdy youths.

confer on something/somebody (with somebody)	to discuss someone or something	Let us confer on this matter with the headmaster. I want to confer with you on how to handle the problem. I need to confer with you about Walter.
confer something (up)on somebody	to grant something, such as an academic degree, to someone, usually in a ceremony (Upon is more formal than on)	The university conferred an honorary degree upon her. They conferred degrees on 300 graduates this year.

confess something to somebody	to admit something to someone; to admit having done something to someone	Tom confessed his involvement to the boss. Max confessed to the police.
confess to (something)	to admit having done something	He will not confess to the crime. In the end, Max confessed to it.

confide in somebody	to trust someone with one's secrets or personal matters	Sally always confided in her sister Ann. She didn't feel that she could confide in her mother.
confide something in somebody	to tell a secret or private matter to someone, trusting that the person will not reveal the secret	I learned not to confide anything secret in Bob. Tom really needed to confide his inner fears to someone.

confine (somebody or an animal) within something	to contain someone or an animal within something	We were unable to confine the dog within the yard. Could you confine all your car-repair mess within the garage?

confine somebody or an animal to something	to limit someone or an animal to a particular place; to imprison someone or an animal in a particular place	Would you please confine the dog to the basement? She confined herself to the small room for over a year because of her fear of crowds.
confine something to something/somebody	to limit something or the doing of something to a person or a thing	Please try to confine your comments to John. Can we confine tonight's discussion to the agenda?

confirm somebody in something	to perform a religious rite that ties one more closely to one's religion	They confirmed her in the church this morning.

confiscate something from something/somebody	to seize or impound something from someone or a group	The police confiscated all the stolen property from the suspect's garage. The clean confiscated the beer from the dormitory.

conflict with something	to clash with something (Does not refer to fighting)	This date conflicts with my doctor's appointment. As far as I can tell, the date you suggest does not conflict with anything.

conform to something	to agree with or behave within guidelines or regulations	I hope that your policies will conform to our guidelines. Does my casual dress conform to your regulations?

conform with something	to match or agree with a model, plan, or set of specifications (Compare this with conform to something)	Does this part conform with the specifications? This one conforms with them quite well.

confront somebody with something	to face someone with incriminating evidence, charges of wrongdoing, or criticism	The angry husband confronted his wife with the evidence of her financial irresponsibility. The police confronted Wilson with the witness's statement.

confuse (somebody) with (somebody else)	to mix someone up with someone else; to mistake someone or something with something else	I'm afraid you have confused me with my brother. Don't confuse the old ones with the new ones.
confuse somebody or an animal with something	to use something to bewilder or confuse someone or an animal	You have confused me with your clever talk. You confused the dog with your orders.

confuse somebody about something	to cause someone to be puzzled or bewildered about something	She confused me about the time of the concert. I wish you wouldn't confuse me about those things.

congratulate (somebody) for/on ([doing] something)

congratulate on	We congratulated them on getting married.
congratulate somebody (up)on something	to compliment or wish happiness to someone because of something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	I want to congratulate you on your recent success. I congratulate you on your new job!
congratulate somebody on something	The teacher congratulated all the students on their final reports.

conjecture on something	to speculate on or guess about something	I will not even conjecture on the outcome. Dave conjectured on what might happen next.

conjure up	to create a picture or memory in someone's mind	It CONJURES UP memories of my school days.
conjure up	to create something without many resources	I had to CONJURE UP a full weekend's entertainment for the visitors with no notice at all.

conk out	(always conk out;) [for something] to break down; to quit running	My car conked out finally. I hope my computer doesn't conk out.
conk out	(from years ago;) to fall asleep	I conked off about midnight. I was so tired that I nearly conked off. I was afraid I would conk out while I was driving.
conk out	to fall fast asleep; to go to sleep very quickly	I was exhausted and CONKED OUT on the sofa. I was so tired, I conked out on the couch and never even made it into bed.
conk out	to stop or fall asleep (from exhaustion)	He was so exhausted, he conked out in front of the TV.
conk out	to suddenly breakdown or stop working	The car conked out on the motorway. The printer CONKED OUT so I couldn't get a hard copy.
conk out	to stop working or fail suddenly (Usage notes: usually said about a machine or engine)	My radio conked out again, so I couldn't hear the weather reports.

connect (up) to something	to attach to something; to attach or link something to some electrical device or electrical signal	When we finish the house, we will connect up to the utilities. We have to connect to the Internet ourselves.

connect (up) with something/somebody	to form an association with someone or a group (The up is informal)	Let's connect up with some other people and form an organization through which we can express our views. We need to connect with like-minded people that can help us with our problems.
connect (up) with something/somebody	to meet with someone or a group; to communicate with someone or a group, especially over the telephone	I tried to connect up with Bob over the phone, but I could never reach him. We could not connect with the council to discuss these matters.
connect (with somebody)	to meet someone; to talk to someone on the telephone	Let's try to connect on this matter tomorrow. We finally connected and discussed the matter fully over dinner.

connive at something (with somebody)	to scheme at something (with someone); to plot something (with someone)	Are you conniving at something with Ronald? Are you and Ronald conniving with Tom at something I should know about? Stop conniving with people!

conscript somebody into something	to call someone into military service; to draft someone	The war-torn country was even conscripting children into the army. Fred was conscripted into the army.

consecrate something/somebody to God	to pledge someone to the service of God; to dedicate something to the glory or service of God	They consecrated the new church building to the glory of God.

consent to something	to agree to permit something to happen	I will not consent to your marriage. There is no need for you to consent to anything. My advisor consented to my plan.

consider somebody for something	to think about offering someone a job, office, or other responsibility	Would you consider David for the job? I could not possibly consider you for the position.

consign something to something/somebody	to assign something for shipment to a place	Bill consigned this batch to Denver.
consign something to something/somebody	to entrust something to someone, something, or some place	We consigned all the toughest assignments to our top employees. What shipping company should we consign these boxes to?

consist of something/somebody	to include people or things; to be made up of people or things	Grammar consists of syntax, morphology, semantics, and phonology. Water consists of hydrogen, oxygen, and a few other elements. This bread consists of flour, water, sugar, oil, and yeast. The U.S. Senate consists of two elected officials from each state.

console somebody on something	to comfort someone about something	I want to console you on your recent loss. They consoled Fred on the continuing difficulties he was having.

console somebody with something	to use something to comfort someone	We consoled her with a sympathy card and flowers. He sat down and consoled himself with a beer or two.

consort with somebody	to associate with someone	It is said that she consorts with thieves. No one worth anything would consort with Max.
consort with somebody	to have sex with someone	Over the years it is rumored that she consorted with numerous young men.

conspire with somebody (against something/somebody)	to join with someone in a plot against someone or something else	The CEO conspired with the board of directors against the stockholders. Ed conspired with Sam against the plan.

constrain somebody from doing something	to prevent someone from doing something; to hold someone back from doing something	I hope this doesn't constrain you from trying out for the play. His handicap did not constrain him from finishing the race.

construct something from something	to build something using something	Do you want to construct the house from wood? Shall we construct the building out of stone?

consult (with) somebody (about something/somebody)	to ask someone about someone or something	Please consult with me about all your plans. You should consult the architect about your needs. Please consult with me first.

contaminate something/somebody with something	to get someone or something dirty with something; to pollute someone or something with something	Something in the hospital contaminated the patient with a serious infection. The campers learned not to contaminate the outdoors with anything they carried in.

contend against something/somebody	to fight or compete against someone or something	Do we have to contend against all this criticism? Ed refuses to have to contend against Eric.

contend with somebody (for something)	to fight someone for something; to compete with someone to win something	I don't want to have to contend with Sally for the award. I don't want to have to contend for the job with Ed.

content with something/somebody !

continue by doing something	to keep going by starting to do something else or the next step	You are doing very well in this piano lesson. Please continue by playing the other sonata. After the interruption, Wally continued by explaining his position on the trade negotiations.

continue on	He continued on sleeping all day.

continue with something	to keep doing whatever was being done before	Oh, please continue with your discussion. Do you mind if I continue with my knitting as we talk?

contract in	to become involved or committed to something	Since it started, many companies have CONTRACTED IN to lend their support.

contract out	to give a contract for a service outside the company you work for	They have CONTRACTED OUT their catering services to save money.
contract out of	to formally leave and agreement	I CONTRACTED OUT OF the deal years ago.
contract something out	to make an agreement with someone to do a specific amount of work (Rather than doing it oneself or in one's own place of business)	I will contract this out and have it done by consultants. I contracted out this kind of job the last time.

contract with somebody (for something)	to make an agreement with someone to produce or supply something, or to do something	I will have to contract with an expert for that part of the project. We contracted with a local builder for a new kitchen. Did you contract for plumbing work with Eric?

contrast (something/somebody) with (something/somebody else)	to examine people or things in a way that will show their differences	Contrast Sally with Sam, for instance, to see real differences. Contrast the busy geometry of a Gothic cathedral to the simple lines of an old Saxon castle.
contrast with something/somebody	to be different from someone or something	Bill's cheery attitude really contrasts with the gloom of his twin brother, Bob. This stiped tie really contrasts with that polka-dot shirt.
contrast with something/somebody	[for a color or pattern, etc.] to show a marked difference with or complement another	The black one contrasts nicely with the white one.

contribute something (to somebody) (for something/somebody)	to donate something to someone for the benefit of someone or something	I hope you will contribute at least a dollar to Mary for Tom's birthday present. Will you contribute a dollar for Tom to Mary when she comes around? Can you contribute a dollar for the gift?
contribute to something	to add to or exacerbate something	The dry weather contributed to the failure of the crops.
contribute to something	to donate something to some cause	Please contribute to the fund for the needy.

convalesce from something	to recuperate from a disease, operation, or injury	I spent three weeks in bed convalescing from the flu. Donna needed some time to convalesce from her surgery.

converge (up)on something/somebody	to gather near or around someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Everyone converged on the wounded sailor. The shoppers converged on the store as it opened for the big sale.
converge (up)on something/somebody	to meet on someone or something; to grow together so as to focus on someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Even political enemies converged on the matter of simplifying the tax code. Our discussions converged on Eric.

converse with somebody (about something/somebody)	to talk about someone or something	Please converse with Ted about that. I need to converse about last night with you. The principal needs to converse with you.

convert from something (into something)	to change from one thing into another	We converted from oil to natural gas to heat our house. I had hoped he would convert from an impatient youth into a relaxed gentleman. He did not.
convert something/somebody (from something) (into something)	to change someone or something from something into something else	Can we convert you from a meat eater into a vegetarian? Would you be willing to convert your oil furnace to a gas one?

convey something (from something/somebody) (to something/somebody)	to carry or transport something from someone or something to someone, something, or some place	I conveyed the box from the table to the basement. Please convey every good wish from those of us in the Midwest to those on the East Coast. Would you convey my blessings to the newlyweds?

convict somebody of something	to pronounce someone guilty of something	In the end, they convicted her of theft. The police wanted to convict Max of the crime.

convince somebody of something	to persuade someone that something is true	You will never convince me of what you say. I will probably convince myself of the need to find a better job. Michael convinced his teacher of the correctness of his answer on the test. He convinced his teacher to change his grade.

convulse somebody with something	to cause someone to quake or jerk because of pain or emotion (Can be physical or figurative; see examples)	He convulsed with abdominal pain from something he ate. The audience was convulsed with laughter.

cook (something) out	to cook food out of doors	Shall we cook out some chicken tonight? Yes, let's cook out.

cook something to !

cook something up (with somebody)	to arrange or plan to do something with someone (The something is usually the word something; See also cook something up)	I tried to cook something up with Karen for Tuesday. I want to cook up something with John. Let's see if we can cook something up.
cook up something	to invent something to produce a result you want (Usage notes: often cook up means to invent something that is dishonest or illegal)	Freddy cooked up a great story so that Jane wouldn't know she was on her way to a surprise party for her birthday. I'd like to find out who cooked this scheme up.

cool down	to become calm	It took me ages to COOL DOWN after the argument. It began to cool down after the thunderstorm.
cool down	to get cooler	I left the tea for a minute until it had COOLED DOWN enough to drink.
cool down	to stop feeling angry	After the girls were kept apart for a while, tempers cooled down and the shouting stopped. I was really angry, so I left the house and took a walk to cool off.
cool somebody down	to cool someone by reducing the heat or applying something cold	Here, have a cold drink. Cool yourself down. The ice finally cooled down the feverish child. We need to cool off the pudding in a hurry.
cool somebody down	to reduce someone's anger (Reducing the "heat" of anger)	I just stared at him while he was yelling. I knew that would cool him down. The coach talked to them for a long time. That cooled them off.
cool somebody down	to reduce someone's passion or love (Reducing the "heat" of passion)	When she slapped him, that really cooled him down. Seeing Mary was too intense, so Bill cooled himself off by breaking it off for a while.

cool off	to let one's anger die away (As the "heat" of anger declines)	I'm sorry I got angry. I'll cool off in a minute. Cool off, Tom. There is no sense getting so excited.
cool off	to let one's passion or love die away (As the "heat" of passion declines)	Ted: Is Bob still in love with Jane? Bill: No, he's cooled off a lot.
cool off	to lose or reduce heat	I wish my soup would cool off. I'm hungry. It'll cool down this evening, after dusk.

cool somebody out	to calm someone; to appease someone	Cool yourselves out, you people. We gotta be sensible. The manager appeared and tried to cool out everybody, but that was a waste of time.

coop something/somebody up	to confine someone or something in a small place	Don't coop me up. I can't stand small places. We had to coop up the dogs for a while. They COOPED the dog UP in a tiny room.

cop off	to kiss, pet or have sex with someone	She COPPED OFF with Damian at the end-of-term party.
cop off	to leave work or school early	We COPPED OFF early on Friday because there was nothing to do.

cop onto something	to understand or become aware of something	I think I'm copping onto the significance of this at last. Try to cop onto what I'm saying, Otto.

cop out	to choose an easy alternative	She was going to take a Master's degree but COPPED OUT and chose the Diploma course instead.

cop something from something/somebody	to steal or swipe something from someone or something	Some thug copped my watch from me. Max copped food from a number of stores.

cope with something/somebody	to endure someone or something; to manage to deal with someone or something	I don't think I can cope with any more trouble. I can't cope with your being late for work anymore. She copes with working long hours.

copulate with somebody	[for someone] to have sexual intercourse with someone	He said he wanted to copulate with whom?

copy something down (from something/somebody)	to copy onto paper what someone says; to copy onto paper what one reads	Please copy this down from Tony. Ted copied down the directions from the invitation. Jane copied the recipe down from the cookbook.

copy something out (by hand)	to copy something in handwriting	I have to copy this out again. I lost the first copy. Please copy out this article for me.

cork something up	to close and seal a bottle with a cork	I think we should cork this up and save it for later. Cork up the bottle for later.
cork something up	to stop up one's mouth and be quiet	Cork it up and listen! Cork up your mouth!

corner the market on something	to develop or obtain a monopoly of something	The company sought to corner the market on frozen yogurt. Standard Oil had the oil market cornered at the end of the nineteenth century.

corral something/somebody	to herd someone or something into a corral or other enclosed space	It took the cowboys two hours to corral the mustangs. The nursery school teacher herded the kids off the playground and corraled them in the classroom.

correlate something with something	to match or equate something with something else	Can you correlate her comment with what she said yesterday? The scientist could not correlate the new data with his hypothesis.
correlate with something	to match or equate with something	This does not correlate with your earlier story. What she said yesterday does not correlate with what she is saying today.

correspond to something	to match up with something; to harmonize with something	This pin on this part corresponds to the receptacle on the other part it fits into.

correspond with somebody (about something/somebody)	to write letters back and forth with someone about someone or something	I will have to correspond with the manager about that. I corresponded about this with my brother. I corresponded with my brother for over a year. We corresponded about Fred.

cost something out	to figure out the total cost of some set of costs or a complex purchase of goods or services	Give me a minute to cost this out, and I will have an estimate for you. Do you have time to cost out these specifications this week?

cotton (on)to something/somebody	to begin to like or agree to someone or something quickly	She began to cotton to Fred, despite his country ways. She cottoned onto Jane's way of thinking.
cotton to somebody/something	to like someone or something	The public did not cotton to her new CD.
cotton to somebody/something	to protect someone too much without allowing them to be independent enough	She wraps that child up in cotton wool as if he's some precious jewel.

cotton on	to work out the truth	It took me ages to COTTON ON to what they were planning.

cotton up to somebody	to try to make friends with someone; to flatter or fawn on someone in hopes of favorable treatment	James set out to cotton up to the parents of his friends. Just watch her cotton up to the teacher!

couch something in something	to express something in carefully chosen or deceptive words	He tended to couch his explanations in arcane vocabulary. She couched her words in an overly polite manner.

cough something out	to say something while coughing	He coughed the words out, but no one could understand him. He coughed out the name of his assailant.

cough something up	to get something out of the body by coughing	She coughed some matter up and took some more medicine. She coughed up phlegm all night.
cough something up	to produce or present something, such as an amount of money	You will cough the money up, won't you? You had better cough up what you owe me, if you know what's good for you.
cough something up	to vomit something	The dog coughed the rabbit up. The dog coughed up the food it had eaten.
cough up something	to allow an opponent to take the lead in a competition	Sele got a 3-0 lead in the second inning but then coughed it up in the third.
cough up something	to cough long and hard (See also laugh one's head off)	I had the flu. I nearly coughed my head off for two days.
cough up something	to pay money unwillingly	I had to cough up $35 for administration fees. Martinez's lawyers knew the banks had the money, and pushed them to cough it up. Related vocabulary: fork over something.

could do with	to need or want something	I COULD really DO WITH a cup of tea.

counsel somebody about something	to give advice to someone about something	Will you counsel George about which tires to buy?

counsel somebody against something	to advise someone against doing something	The lawyer counseled her against suing the government. I was counseled against going for a walk alone at night.

count in	to include or involve	If you're going on that skiing holiday, you can COUNT me IN; I'd love to go.

count on	to depend, rely	You can COUNT ON them; if they have promised to do something, they'll do it. Can we count on you?
count on	to rely or depend on	I'm counting on the taxi driver to find the theatre. I'm your best friend and you can always count on me.
count on (somebody) to (do something)
count on somebody/something	to rely on	I am counting on you to make dinner while I am out.

count out	to exclude	I don't want to go- you can COUNT me OUT.

count up	to add	COUNT UP the number of tickets sold, please.

counter something/somebody with something	to refute someone or something with something	She countered our evidence with an eyewitness. I countered Nancy with a better argument.
counter with something	to say something in refutation of something; to strike back with something	Aren't you going to counter with an argument? He countered with a punch in the jaw.

couple somebody with somebody	to join one person with another to make a pair	I coupled Todd with Amy for the dinner party.

couple something (on)to something	to attach something to something	Couple this connector to that one. The railroad worker coupled on the next car in line. Couple the green one onto the red one.

couple something together	to attach two parts of something together	Couple these two cars together and put them on track seven. You have to couple the ends of the two hoses together before you turn on the water.

couple something with something	to join one thing with another to make a pair	We coupled the budget issue with the staffing issue for our agenda.
couple with somebody	to have sexual intercourse with someone	They coupled with each other in a night of passion.

couple up (with somebody)	[for one person] to join another person to form a pair	I decided to couple up with Larry. Larry and I coupled up with each other. By midnight, they all had coupled up and were dancing.

course of !

course through something	to run, race, or flow rapidly through something	I believe, sometimes, that ice water courses through your veins. No, perfectly red blood courses through them.

cover (something) with (something else)

cover (up) for somebody	to conceal someone's wrongdoing by lying or concealing the evidence of wrongdoing	Are you covering up for the person who committed the crime? I wouldn't cover for anyone.
cover for somebody	to handle someone else's work	Dr. Johnson's partner agreed to cover for him during his vacation.
cover for somebody	to make excuses for someone; to conceal someone's errors	If I miss class, please cover for me. If you're late, I'll cover for you.

cover somebody in something	to place something over someone or something to serve as clothing or concealment	The designer had covered her in see-through fabric that was very revealing.

cover something up	to conceal a wrongdoing; to conceal evidence	They tried to cover the crime up, but the single footprint gave them away. She could not cover up her misdeeds.
cover something up	to place some sort of cover on something	Please cover up that mess with a cloth. Cover it up.
cover something/somebody up	to place something on someone or something for protection or concealment	Cover the pie up, so Terry won't see it. Cover up Jimmy so he doesn't get cold.
cover up something (cover something up)	to keep something secret or hidden	Others accused her of covering up her financial dealings. I was amazed that the building contractors we hired tried to cover up the problems they had.

cover something/somebody against something	to cover someone or something as protection against something	You should cover your ears against the cold. I covered little Jimmy against the night's drafts. I covered myself against the driving rain.
cover something/somebody against something	[for an insurer] to provide insurance on someone or something against some peril	The insurance policy covered us against losses. This policy covers your car against theft.

cover something/somebody for something	[for an insurer] to provide protection to someone or something for a particular price	One company will cover the car for about a thousand dollars. This policy covers you for a few dollars a week.

cow somebody into something	to intimidate someone into doing something through the use of guilt or shame	You can't cow me into doing it. Those tricks don't work on me. You can cow Wally into almost anything.

cower (away) from something/somebody	to pull away from someone or something in fear	The coyote cowered away from the fire.
cower from something	to drawback from the fear of something	The wolves cowered from the flames. Some excited hyenas cowered from the lions as they passed by.

cower down (from something)	to crouch down, displaying an emotion, such as fear	They cowered down with sheer terror. I would cower down from fright in a similar situation.

cozy up	to make yourself comfortable	It was cold and I COZIED UP by the fire.
cozy up	to snuggle up to someone as if to get warm	The children cozied up to their mother. They cozied up to each other.
cozy up	to try to get in good with someone; to try to increase one's influence with someone by being extra nice and friendly	The salesman tried to cozy up to the customer.
cozy up to	to make yourself popular with someone	He's been COZYING UP TO our boss because he wants a pay rise.

crack down on	to use more authority than usual	The police always CRACK DOWN ON drink-driving offences over the Christmas period.

crack on	to continue doing something with energy	We had to CRACK ON to get everything finished on time.

crack under the strain	to have a mental or emotional collapse because of continued work or stress	He worked 80-hour weeks for a month and finally cracked under the strain.

crack up	to burst out laughing	Everybody CRACKED UP when he told the joke.
crack up	to damage a car badly	He CRACKED his car UP last night when he came off the road.
crack up	to have a nervous breakdown	He CRACKED UP after his son died and had to take a couple of months off work.
crack up	to have bad reception on a mobile phone	You'll have to talk louder- you're CRACKING UP.

cram for an examination	to study very hard for an exam	I have to go cram fora test now. If you would study during the school term, you would not have to cram.

cram something/somebody into something	to stuff or crush someone or something into something	Can you really cram seven kids into that car? He crammed in his clothes and closed the drawer.

cram something/somebody with something/somebody	to fill someone or something by stuffing with someone or something	You won't be happy till you cram all of us with cake and ice cream. He crammed his drawer with his socks.

crank out	to produce a lot of something fast	My boss keeps CRANKING OUT stupid memos.
crank out something	to get a machine or a process started (Alludes to turning the starting crank of an early automobile)	Please crank the machinery so the workers can start working. Let's crank up the drill and make a few holes here in the wall.
crank out something	to increase the volume of an electronic device	He cranked it up a little more and CRACK, there went both speakers! Kelly cranked up his stereo until we were nearly deafened.
crank out something	to produce something continually, like a machine	He regularly cranks out one movie a year and hasn't shown any signs of slowing down.
crank something out	to produce something quickly or carelessly; to make something in a casual and mechanical way	John can crank a lot of work out in a single day. The automated production line could really crank out parts, but the quality was shoddy.

crank somebody up	to motivate; to get someone started (See also crank something up)	See if you can crank up your brother and get him going on time today. Some mornings, I can't crank myself up enough to get to work on time.
crank up	to increase, make something bigger	I CRANKED the volume UP as high as it would go.
crank up	to inject non-medical drugs	He's been CRANKING UP heroin for years.
crank up	to start a machine, originally with a handle	He CRANKED the saw UP.
crank up something	to increase something	To meet the demand for their baked goods, the plant has cranked up the speed of the production lines. The volume was cranked up so high that he had to scream in order to talk to the woman next to him.

crap out	to quit doing something with someone or withdraw because of exhaustion	Don't crap out of this on me! Pull yourself together! Don't crap out on me!
crap out	to stop performing well	Our new lawn mower just crapped out.
crap out	to withdraw from doing something with someone, unexpectedly, perhaps because of fear or cowardice	Are you going to crap out of this game on me?
crap out (of something) (on somebody)	to quit doing something with someone or withdraw because of exhaustion	Don't crap out of this on me! Pull yourself together! Don't crap out on me!
crap out (of something) (on somebody)	to withdraw from doing something with someone, unexpectedly, perhaps because of fear or cowardice	Are you going to crap out of this game on me?

crash around	to move around in a noisy way	Stop crashing around. I'm trying to study. The people upstairs were crashing around and I couldn't get any sleep.

crash course (in something)	a short and intense training course in something	I took a crash course in ballroom dancing so we wouldn't look stupid on the dance floor.

crash down	and crash in (on someone or something)	[for something] to collapse on someone or something. The walls crashed in around the burning house. The branches of the tree crashed down on the roof. The old barn crashed down.
crash down	[for the structure and stability of one's life] to fall apart	Her whole life crashed down around her. Everything he was familiar with crashed down about him.

crash into (something/somebody)	to bump or ram into someone or something accidentally or roughly	The student crashed into the door when it opened suddenly. The car crashed into a bus.

crash out	to fall asleep	I CRASHED OUT in front of the TV last night.
crash out	to sleep at someone's house because you are too tired, drunk, etc. to leave	Dave CRASHED OUT at a friend's flat after the end-of-term party.
crash out (of some place)	to break out of some place, such as a prison	Max and Lefty crashed out of the state prison last week, but they were captured. They crashed out at midnight.

crash through something	to break through something forcefully	The cows crashed right through the fence.

crash to the floor	to fall onto the floor and make a crashing sound	The tray of dishes crashed to the floor. Everything crashed to the floor and was broken.

crave to do something	to want to do something eagerly	I don't crave to ride the roller coaster, thank you. The kids have been craving to see that movie for weeks.

crawl across something	[for someone] to move across something on hands and knees; [for an insect or something similar] to walk across something	The wounded officer had to crawl across the open area to get to safety. The caterpillar crawled across the leaf and stopped at the end. She crawled along the catwalk, fearing to look down.

crawl back to somebody	to go back to someone humbly, perhaps asking for forgiveness	I knew you would come crawling back to me! I wouldn't crawl back to him for all the tea in China.

crawl in	to dress quickly in some kind of clothing	I crawled into my pants and threw on a shirt. He finally found his pants and crawled in.
crawl in	to enter a place crawling or creeping	The cat crawled into the room and meowed. The baby crawled in and tried to stand up.
crawl in	to get into bed	At about ten o'clock, she crawled into bed. She pulled back the covers and crawled in.

crawl out	to get out by crawling	The bears finally woke up and crawled out. In the cave, I injured my leg and I had to crawl out.
crawl out (of something)	to get out of something by crawling	The injured man crawled out of the overturned car. Donna crawled out of the cave.

Crawl over something	to cross over something by crawling	We crawled over the pile of boxes. Timmy crawled over the carpet and stood up at the coffee table.

crawling with some kind of creature	[of a surface] covered with insects or animals, moving about	The basement was crawling with rats! We came home and found the kitchen floor crawling with ants.
crawling with somebody	[of a surface] covered with many people or members of a class of people moving about	The place was crawling with police and FBI agents. The city was crawling with tourists making it almost impossible to go from place to place.
crawling with something	full of something	Because the Internet is crawling with sports fans, the league thinks it can build an international audience online.

crazy about something/somebody

crease something up	to get creases or folds into something that is supposed to be flat; to wrinkle one's clothing (Very similar to messed up)	You will crease your jacket up if you don't sit up straight. I was sitting so long that I creased up my pants.

credit somebody with something	to allow people to believe that one has done something praiseworthy, whether or not one has actually done it	I can't take credit for the entire success. Toby helped a lot. Mary took credit for everything that Dave did.
credit somebody with something	to believe that someone has a particular quality or ability	I credited her with more sense than she showed.
credit something/somebody with something	to give someone or something well-deserved praise for doing something or having something	We have to credit Jeff with saving us a lot of money. We will credit the weather with part of the success of the picnic.
credit something/somebody with something	to record a payment, deposit, etc., to the account of someone or something	I will credit you with this payment as you request. Your account has been credited with this adjustment.

credit something to something/somebody	to give someone or something well-deserved praise	The entire organization credited much praise to Jeff. We had to credit much of our success to simple good luck.
credit something to something/somebody	to record a sum owed to the account of someone or something	I will credit this payment to your account. I am afraid that I accidentally credited your payment to George.
credit to something/somebody	of value or benefit to someone or something; of enough value or worth as to enhance someone or something	I always want to be a credit to my school. John is not what you would call a credit to his family.

credit something/somebody for something	to give someone or something the praise deserved for doing something	We must credit Sarah for her efforts on our behalf. We have to credit all the rain we've had for saving the crops.

creep across something	to move across something slowly and carefully; to sneak across something	The soldiers crept slowly across the rope bridge. The cat crept across the floor, stalking the mouse.
creep across something	[for light, fog, etc.] to move slowly across a place or an area	A heavy fog crept across the coastal areas. The spotlight crept across the stage from one side to the other, as if looking for the performer.

creep along something	to move along something slowly and carefully; to sneak along something	Creep along the side of the building until you reach the door. The cat crept along the narrow kitchen counter.

creep away	to travel away slowly and carefully; to sneak away	The boys were completely ashamed and crept away. The cat crept away quietly.

creep by	[for time] to pass slowly	The minutes crept by as I awaited Mrs. Barron's telephone call. I know the days will creep by until we finally get our test results.

creep in	get included despite attempts to keep it or them out	Errors CREPT IN as the text got longer.
creep in	start to be noticeable	He tried to stay calm, but you could hear the anger CREEPING IN.
creep in (to something)	to go into something or a place slowly and carefully; to sneak into something or a place	The cat crept into the bedroom. Max planned to creep into the house and take cash and jewelry.

creep into	become noticeable in something	An angry tone CREPT INTO her voice.

creep out	make someone feel worried or uneasy	He CREEPS me OUT when he gets drunk.
creep out (of something)	to go out of something or a place slowly and carefully; to sneak out of something or a place	A little mouse crept out of the cupboard. The fox crept out of the henhouse, carrying a chicken.
creep out on	to do the same activity for a very long time	He's been CREEPING OUT ON that computer game all day.

creep over	start to have a negative feeling	Fear CREPT OVER me as I walked through the graveyard.
creep over something/somebody	[for darkness] to move slowly over someone or something	The shadows crept over the picnic and made everyone realize what time it was. Dusk crept over us.
creep over something/somebody	[for something, such as an insect] to walk or crawl over someone or something	A huge ant crept over me, and I just lay there.

creep under something	to move slowly and carefully underneath something; to sneak underneath something	The dog crept under the table to escape punishment. The chipmunk crept under a pile of leaves and disappeared.

creep up	[for darkness] to move gradually and slowly [toward someone or something]	Dusk crept up and swallowed us in darkness.
creep up on	approach without someone realizing	They CREPT UP ON their rivals and overtook them.

crib something from something/somebody	to cheat by copying something from someone or something	It appears that you cribbed this directly from the person sitting next to you.

cringe away from something/somebody	to pull back or away from someone or something, as from fear	The child cringed away from the teacher. Why did you cringe away from the dentist's chair? The cat cringed from the fire. The child cringed from the huge dog.

cringe before something/somebody	to cower or recoil in the presence of someone or something	Jeff cringed before the wrath of the policeman.

crinkle up	to wrinkle up	Her nose crinkled up when she laughed.

crop out	to appear on the surface; [for something] to reveal itself in the open; to begin to show above the surface	A layer of rock cropped out at the edges of the desert.
crop something/somebody out	[for a photographer] to cut or trim out someone or something from a photograph	The photographer cropped Mr. Jones out of the picture. See if you can crop out the ugly fence at the side of the house.

crop up	to appear unexpectedly	I'm going to be late tonight as something has just CROPPED UP at work.
crop up	Starting with good materials will help you get good results	Jill: Elsie and Jim are going to have a baby. Jane: I'm sure it will be a good child, since they're both such good people. Good seed makes a good crop. I am sure Robert's business will flourish. He's capable and honest, and good seed makes a good crop.
crop up	the best of a particular group	These artists are the best of this year's graduates - the cream of the crop.
crop up	to appear by chance	Officials fear that the virus could crop up in the United States. Interest in international issues has cropped up on many university campuses.
crop up	to appear without warning; to happen suddenly; [for something] to begin to reveal itself in the open	Some new problems cropped up at the last minute.

cross off	to delete, remove from a list	She CROSSED him OFF her Christmas card list after they argued.

cross out	to put as line through some writing to show it is wrong	She CROSSED OUT her mistakes and wrote the correct answers above them.
cross out	to remove by drawing a line through	In some exercises you are asked to cross out the incorrect word.
cross out	to put lines through something written, drawn, etc.	Cross out your name.
cross out something; cross something out
cross something out	to draw a line through	Please cross out your old address and write your new one.

crouch around	[for people or other creatures] to stoop or squat within an area	Everyone crouched around, hoping the bomb would fall somewhere else. The baboons i crouched around, grooming one another.

crouch down	to stoop or huddle down	Crouch down here, next to me. Suddenly, Tex crouched down and reached for his pistol.

crow about something	[for a rooster] to cry out or squawk about something	The rooster was crowing about something - ;you never know what.
crow about something	[for someone] to brag about something	Stop crowing about your successes! She is crowing over her new car.

crowd around something/somebody	to flock or swarm around someone or something	The children crowded around the department store Santa, eager for their chance at talking to him. Everyone crowded around the radio to listen.

crowd in (on something/somebody)	to press or crush around someone or something	Please don't crowd in on the guest of honor. Can you keep them back from me? I don't like it when they crowd in. The people crowded in on us and frightened us a little bit. Don't crowd in on the display case. It is an antique.
crowd in(to) some place	to push or squeeze into some place	Please don't try to crowd into this place. Too many people are trying to crowd in.
crowd something/somebody in(to) something	to push or squeeze someone or something into a place or a container	They tried to crowd a dozen people into that tiny room. Then they crowded in one more. They all tried to crowd themselves into the same room.

crowd something with something/somebody	to pack too many people or things into something	The ushers crowded the room with visitors. Aunt Victoria had crowded the room with the busy trappings of a bygone era.

crowd something/somebody out of something	to push or force someone, something, or an animal out of something	Don't crowd your brother out of line! Don't crowd out my favorite plants with all your rosebushes!

crowd something/somebody together	to push or squeeze people or things together	See if you can crowd them together and get more in the row. I am afraid that I crowded the plants together too much.
crowd through (something)	[for a number of people] to push through something	The little group of revelers crowded through the door. They all tried to crowd through.

crown somebody with something	to place a crown on someone's head	They crowned the prince with the heavily jeweled royal crown.
crown somebody with something	to strike someone on the head with something	She crowned him with a skillet. The carpenter crowned himself with a board he knocked loose.
crown something with something	to place something on the very top of something (As if crowning royalty)	The chef crowned the cake with golden icing.

cruise around in something	to drive or ride around in something	Would you like to cruise around in a car like that? They really liked cruising around in the motorboat.

cruising for a bruising	asking for trouble	You are cruising for a bruising, you know that? Who's cruisin' for a bruisin'?

crumb down	clear a table in a restaurant	The waiter CRUMBED DOWN before the coffee was served.

crumble away	to break away in little pieces	The marble pillar was crumbling away because of the acidic rain. One of my teeth is just crumbling away.

crumble into something	to break apart and fall down into bits and pieces	The base of the pillar suddenly crumbled into dust. The bones crumbled into dust as the body was lifted from the box.

crumble something up (into something)	to crunch up or break up something into pieces	Now, crumble the dried bread up into crumbs. Crumble up the bread into crumbs.
crumble up	to break up into little pieces	The cake, which was very dry, crumbled up when I tried to cut it. The paper of the old book crumbled up when I turned the pages.

crumple something up	to fold up or crush someone or something	Walter crumpled the paper up. He crumpled up the paper.
crumple up	to fold up; to collapse	She was so frightened that she just crumpled up. Fran crumpled up in a dead faint.

crunch something/somebody up	to break someone or something up into pieces	That machine will crunch you up. Stay away from it! A number of blows with the hammer crunched up the rocks into pebbles. Try to crunch the larger chunks up.

crusade against something/somebody	to campaign or demonstrate against someone or something	You are always crusading against one cause or another. Ed started crusading against Eric and the latter threatened suit.

Crusade for something/somebody	to campaign or demonstrate for someone or something	I can hardly crusade for the defeat of a friend. Ed went on a crusade for Eric, hoping to get him elected.

crush (up) against something/somebody	to press hard against someone or something	The crowd crushed up against the people standing in line. The eager theatergoers crushed against the lobby doors.

crush something (in)to something	to grind or break something into bits and pieces	He crushed the fennel seeds into a powder. The roller crushes the rocks to bits.
crush something/somebody to something	to press or squeeze someone or something into a particular state, such as death, a pulp, nothing, etc.	The anaconda crushed the tapir to death. Donna crushed the bananas to a pulp and put them into the cake batter.

crush something in	to force something inward; to break something in	The beam nearly crushed Jason's head in. He tried to crush in the door.

crush something out of something/somebody	to press or squeeze something from someone or something	He crushed the juice out of the grapes. He thought that the weight of the lumber would crush the life out of him. Robert crushed out the juice.

crush something up (into something)	to press or grind something with great force until it is reduced to something smaller	The chef crushed the almonds up into a powder and sprinkled them on the dessert. The machine crushed up all the glass into tiny bits.

crush something/somebody down	to press or force someone or something down	Crush the leaves down so you can put more into the basket. Crush down the leaves and fill the basket higher.
crush something/somebody down	to suppress someone or something	The dictator crushed the opposition down ruthlessly. He crushed down all political opposition. The army crushed the peasants down ruthlessly.

cry off	to cancel an arrangement	I've got to work tonight; can I CRY OFF going out for dinner?
cry out	to shout because you are in pain	He CRIED OUT when he dropped the box on his toes.

cry over spilled milk	to be unhappy about what cannot be undone (See also It's no use crying over spilled milk)	He is always crying over spilled milk. He cannot accept reality. It can't be helped. Don't cry over spilled milk.

cuddle up	(to someone or something) and cuddle up (with someone) to nestle or snuggle close to someone or something to get warm or to be intimate	Let's cuddle up to the warmth, near the fireplace. She cuddled up with him and went to sleep.
cuddle up with a (good) book	to snuggle into a chair or bed comfortably to read a book	I want to go home and cuddle up with a good book. She went home and curled up with a good book.

cue somebody in	to give someone a cue; to indicate to someone that the time has come	Now, cue the orchestra director in. All right, cue in the announcer.
cue somebody in	to tell someone what is going on (Almost the same as clue someone in (on something))	I want to know what's going on. Cue me in. Cue in the general about the troop movement.

cull something/somebody out of something	to eliminate someone or something from a group	We will cull the older pigeons out from the flock. They culled out the slower runners from the team.

culminate in something	to climax in something; to end with something	The contest culminated in a victory for the best band. The play-offs culminated in a big win for the Chicago team.

cure somebody of something	to rid someone of a disease, ailment, bad habit, or obsession	I hope that the doctor prescribes something to cure him of that chronic cough. Will you please try to cure yourself of your constant interrupting?
cure something of something	to eliminate the cause of a malfunction in a machine or a device (See also cure someone of something)	I think I have cured the stapler of jamming all the time. I can't seem to cure the committee of procrastination.

curl something up	to roll something up into a coil	She curled the edges of the paper up while she spoke. Why did she curl up the paper?
curl up (in(to) something	to roll into a coil	The snake curled up into a neat coil. It curled up so we couldn't get at it.
curl up (in(to) something	[for one] to bend one's body into a resting place, such as a chair or a bed	Colleen curled up in the chair and took a nap. She curled up and took a nap.

curry favor (with somebody)	if you tell someone to do you a favour, you are telling them to stop doing something that is making you angry (often + and + do sth)	Why don't you do us all a favor and keep your opinions to yourself!
curry favor (with somebody)	to try to make someone like you or support you by doing things to please them (usually + with)	The candidate has promised lower taxes in an attempt to curry favor with the voters. The government has promised lower taxes in an attempt to curry favour with the voters.
curry favor (with somebody)	to try to win favor from someone	The lawyer tried to curry favor with the judge. It's silly to curry favor with the boss. Just act yourself.

curse somebody for something	to damn someone for doing something; to invoke evil upon someone for doing something	She cursed her mother for ever having borne her. Over and over, she cursed herself for ever having come there.

curse something/somebody with something	to afflict or oppress someone or something with something	His upbringing cursed him with a strong sense of guilt. The political scandal cursed the town with a dismal reputation for years.
curse something/somebody with something	to damn someone or something with something, especially a verbal curse	She cursed him with the fervent wish that he rot in hell. She cursed the day he was born with an unprintable oath.

curtain something off	to separate something or some place with a drape, screen, or curtain	We curtained this part of the room off, so please sleep over there. We will curtain off part of the room.

curtains for something/somebody	the death, end, or ruin of someone or something (From the lowering or closing of the curtains at the end of a stage performance)	If the car hadn't swerved, it would have been curtains for the pedestrians. If they can't get into the export market, it's curtains for the whole company.

curve to something	to bend or bow toward something, some direction, or some place	The road curved to the left. One of her toes curves to the right.

cuss somebody out	to curse at someone	Dad cussed me out for losing the money he gave me. The little kid cussed out his brother, shocking his grandmother.

cut (somebody) off	When driving: to drive into someone's lane, blocking their way; When speaking: To interrupt, stop someone when s/he is speaking	I can't believe how that driver cut me off!
cut across	to affect people of different groups, classes, etc.	The issue CUTS ACROSS social backgrounds as it affects us all equally.
cut across	to go across a place rather than around it to make the journey quicker	It'll be quicker if we CUT ACROSS the park.

cut back	to reduce	The firm CUT BACK production because sales were sluggish.

cut back on	to reduce expenditure	The government has decided to CUT BACK ON spending on the armed forces. I have to cut back on the water usage.
cut back on	to not spend as much money on	We'll have to back on certain things this month.
cut back on something	to consume less	My doctor wants me to cut back on sweets and fatty foods.

cut down	to consume less	I'm trying to CUT DOWN the amount of coffee I drink during the day.
cut down	to cut something from a high position	After Christmas he didn't carefully detach all the decorations, he just CUT them all DOWN.
cut down	to reduce a vertical thing to ground level by cutting	The logger CUT the tree DOWN.
cut down	toshoot	A lot of soldiers were CUT DOWN by enemy fire as they stormed the airport.
cut down on	to reduce	Doctors advised her to CUT DOWN ON the amount of saturated fats in her diet. My brother is trying to cut down on smoking.
cut down on	to reduce in number or size	The doctor told him to cut down on cigarettes.
cut something down	to make something fall to the ground	We had to cut the old tree in our yard down after the storm.

cut from !

cut in	to drive in front of another vehicle without warning	A car CUT IN and nearly caused an accident.
cut in	to include someone in a deal that makes money	We had to CUT the police IN on the deal to avoid trouble.
cut in	to interrupt	We were having a conversation when he came up and CUT IN. Your father cut in while I was dancing with your uncle.
cut in	to mix fat and flour until the combine	CUT the butter IN with the flour.
cut in	to pull in too closely in front of another vehicle	The bus driver got angry when that car cut in.
cut in	to start functioning	The fans CUT IN when the engine starts getting too hot.
cut in	to start operating (of an engine or electrical device)	The air conditioner cuts in when the temperature gets to 22°C.

cut it out	to stop your unfair or unreasonable behavior	Will you two idiots CUT IT OUT and keep quiet.

cut no ice (with somebody)	to have no influence on someone; to fail to convince someone	I don't care who you are. It cuts no ice with me. So you're the mayor's daughter. It still cuts no ice.

cut off	to disconnect	The telephone's been CUT OFF because we didn't pay the bill.
cut off	to isolate or make inaccessible	The heavy snow has blocked many roads and CUT OFF a number of villages.
cut somebody off	to take out of a will	My grandparents cut my father off when he remarried.
cut something off	to remove with something sharp	The doctors cut off his leg because it was severely injured.
cut something off	to stop providing	The phone company cut off our phone because we didn't pay the bill.

cut something out	to remove part of something (usually with scissors and paper)	I cut this ad out of the newspaper.

cut out	to cut a picture or similar from a magazine, etc.	I CUT some pictures OUT to use as visual aids.
cut out	to exclude	I'm CUTTING OUT salt from my diet.
cut out	to remove using scissors	She cut out a picture in a magazine. Cut it out!
cut out	to stop doing something	I'm going to cut out eating sweet food.
cut out	when an engine or motor stops	The car CUT OUT at the traffic lights just as they went green.
cut out on	to let down, snub	Although he'd promised to help, the star CUT OUT ON the charity when offered more money.

cut through !

cut to !

cut up	to cut into smaller pieces	After cutting the tree down, the logger CUT it UP into logs.
cut up	to drive into a neighboring lane, directly in front of another vehicle	I was just driving onto the motorway slip-road, when a red Mini CUT me UP and I had to brake suddenly to avoid an accident.
cut up	to have a lot of small injuries	I CUT my hand UP when I broke the glass.
cut up	to upset	Her reaction really CUT me UP.
cut up something; cut something up

dab something off (of) something	to pat or wipe something off something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Please dab the butter off your chin. Please dab off the butter. Dab the moisture off of the apples.

dab something on(to) something	to pat or spread carefully something onto something else	Dab some medicine onto the scratch. Dab on some medicine.

dabble at something	to play at doing something; to do something halfheartedly	Don't just dabble at your history paper. Settle down and do it right. She dabbles at painting.

dabble in something	to be involved in something in a casual manner	She dabbled in local politics for a while. I want to dabble in something new for a while.

dally over something	to waste time or take too long doing something	Don't dally over your food. Eat your dinner. I wish you wouldn't dally over your homework.

dally with somebody	to flirt with someone; to waste time with someone of the opposite sex (Old)	Sam is dallying with that Johnson girl again. Stop dallying with her and get back to your studies!

dam something up	to erect a barrier in a river, stream, brook, etc.	We are going to have to dam this stream up to make a pond for the cattle. Let's dam up this stream. Why is this river dammed up?

damn somebody with something	to curse someone with words	She damned him with curse after curse. Maria damned Joe with the worst curses she could think of.
damn somebody with something	to denounce or defeat someone in a particular way	She damned him with her insincere words of praise. She damned herself with the evidence she had hoped would save her.
damn somebody/something with !

damp something down	to make something damp	Damp the clothes down before you iron them, Please damp down the clothes first.
damp something down	to reduce the intensity of a flame, usually by cutting down on the air supply, as with a damper	Please damp the woodstove down. Damp down the air supply or you are going to end up with a raging inferno.

dance at !

dance on !

dance to !

dance with somebody	to perform social dancing with another person	Do you think you would like to dance with Wally? Would you please dance with me?

dangle from something	to hang from something	A number of colorful glass balls dangled from the branches of the tree. Some loose threads dangled from the bottom of his jacket.
dangle something from something	to hang something loosely from something else	She dangled a few small bells from the bottom of her skirt during the holidays. I dangled a bit of fish from the window so I could see how high the cat would jump.

dangle something before somebody	to lure someone with something	He dangled the keys before Wally, hoping to get him to drive. He dangled the money in front of Eric, hoping to make him change his mind.
dangle something before somebody	to tempt someone by dangling a tempting object in front of them	Don't dangle that string of pearls infront of me unless you intend to give them to me!

dare somebody (to do something)	to challenge someone to do something	Sally dared Jane to race her to the corner. You wouldn't do that, would you? I dare you.

dart a glance at something/somebody	to shoot a quick look at someone or something	She darted a glance at him and looked quickly away. He darted a glance at the door and looked even more uncomfortable.

dart about	to move about quickly	The little fish were darting about everywhere. People were darting about, to and fro, during the noon rush hour.

dart across something	to run quickly over something	A small animal darted across the road in front of the car. I tried to dart across the street, but the traffic was too heavy.

dart in and out	[for something moving] to move quickly between two things, or into a number of things, and move away again	On the highway, a small car was darting in and out of the two right lanes of traffic. A small bird darted in and out of the bush, probably going into a nest inside.

dart out (of something) (at something/somebody)	to move quickly out of something toward someone or something	The ferret darted out of its burrow at the children. The snake darted out at the frog. The mouse darted out of its hole.

dash across something	to run quickly across some area	John dashed across the busy street and ran in the door. The dog dashed across the yard and confronted the meter reader.

dash away	to run away; to leave in a hurry	I must dash away. See you tomorrow. Juan had to dash away to an appointment. Ken dashed off and left me behind to deal with the angry customer.

dash off	to do something quickly, especially writing	He DASHED OFF the report in a couple of hours.
dash off	to leave somewhere quickly	It is late- I am going to DASH OFF home.
dash off	to go or leave somewhere quickly (also "to run off")	She dashed off to the store before I had a chance to speak to her.
dash something off	to make or do something quickly	I will dash this off now and try to take more time with the rest of them. I will see if I can dash off a cherry pie before dinner.

dash out (for something)	[for someone] to leave a place in a hurry to get something	Harry dashed out for some cigarettes. Excuse me. I just have to dash out.

dash over (for something)	[for someone] to come by quickly for something such as a brief visit	I just dashed over for a cup of sugar. Can you spare it? I needed some sugar, so I just dashed over.

dash something to !

dash something/somebody against something/somebody	to throw or fling someone or something at or against someone or something	Sam dashed the bottle against the floor, shattering it. Alice dashed the box against Ed, throwing him off balance.

date back (to somebody or some time)	to have origins that extend back to the time of someone or something	This part of the palace dates back to Catherine the Great. This is old! It really must date back.

date from something	to have an existence that extends from a particular time	This building dates from the beginning of the last century. These books date from the 1920s.

daub something on(to) something	to smear or paint something onto something else	The painter daubed a bit of yellow onto the canvas. Daub on a bit of yellow here. She daubed the medicine on.

daub something with something	to smear or paint something with something sticky, such as paint, grease, makeup, etc.	The mechanic daubed the part with grease and put it back where it came from. The end of the chair leg was daubed with glue and set into place.

dawdle about	to waste time in a place; to waste time talking idly	Don't dawdle about. Get moving. Tim has been dawdling about all morning.

dawdle along	to move along slowly and casually	The boys dawdled along on their way to school. We were just dawdling along, talking about life. We didn't know we were late.

dawdle over something	to waste time when one should be doing a particular task; to loaf while doing something	Don't dawdle over your hamburger. The lunch period ends in two minutes. Don't dawdle over it. Get it done.

dawdle something away	to waste a particular amount of time; to let a period of time slip away, wasted	You didn't finish your work because you dawdled most of your time away. You dawdle away too much time daydreaming.

dawn (up)on somebody	[for a fact] to become apparent to someone; [for something] to be suddenly realized by someone (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Then it dawned upon me that I was actually going to have the job. On the way home, it dawned on me that I had never returned your call, so when I got home I called immediately.
dawn on	finally realise or understand something	The truth only DAWNED ON me much later.
dawn on (somebody)	To come to the realization; to realize	It never dawned on me that she might be unhappy. (I never realized that she might be unhappy)
dawn on you	to suddenly understand something	It finally dawned on him that she'd been joking and he was worried for no reason.

dead of !

deaden something with something	to dull or anesthetize pain with something	The doctor deadened the area with an injection before she began to stitch. I will deaden the pain with a local anesthetic.

deal with (something/somebody)	to handle, take care of (problem, situation)	The manager is good at dealing with difficult customers.

debate on something	to hold a long and disciplined discussion on a particular subject	We can debate on this all night if you think we will settle anything in the end. Are they still debating on the question?

debit something against something/somebody	to record a charge for something against someone's account or against a particular category of an account	I will have to debit this against your account. The clerk debited the charge against you.

debit something to something/somebody	to make a charge for something to someone or something	To whose account can we debit this charge? Let's debit it to Jane.

debit something with something	to charge something for something	They debited Fred's account with the whole expense. The bank debited my checking account with the cost of the new checks.

deceive somebody into something	to trick someone into doing something	She deceived me into giving her my car keys. You can't deceive me into doing what I don't want to do.

deceive somebody with something	to cheat someone with something or with deceptive words	You cannot deceive me with your promises. You are just deceiving yourself with fancy talk.

decide (up) on	I decided on the iced tea. The court has not yet decided on a ruling.
decide (up)on something/somebody	to choose someone or something; to make a judgment about some aspect of someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Will you please hurry up and decide upon someone to vote for? I decided on chocolate.
decide on something	Michael decided on biology as his major.
decide on/against

decide against (doing something)	To decide not to (do something)	We decided against buying a car. He decided against joining the military. He decided to join the military.
decide against something/somebody	to rule against someone or something; to make a judgment against someone or something	We decided against Tom and chose Larry instead. Jane decided against the supplier.

decide among (somebody and somebody else)	to choose from three or more people; to choose from three or more things	I couldn't decide among all the choices on the menu. I will decide among Fred, Tom, and Alice.

decide between (somebody and somebody else)	to choose one from two people; to choose one from two things	I could not decide between Tom and Wally. We could not decide between those two. I have to decide between coffee and tea to go with my lunch. He decided between the U.S. and Australia as the place to study English.

decide for something/somebody	to rule in favor of someone or something; to make a judgment for someone or something	The jury decided for the plaintiff. The judge decided for me.

decide in favor of something/somebody	to determine that someone or something is the winner	The judge decided in favor of the defendant. I decided in favor of the red one.

deck out somebody/something	to decorate someone or something in something special	The stewards were decked out in beautiful new uniforms. Some salesman had decked the car out, giving it racing wheels and stripes on the sides.
deck something/somebody out (in something)	to decorate someone or something with something	Sally decked all her children out for the holiday party. She decked out her children in Halloween costumes. Tom decked the room out with garlands of flowers.

declare (oneself) for something/somebody	to state one's support of someone or something	Susan declared herself for Mary's candidacy. I have not yet declared for any particular policy. Todd declared himself for the candidacy of Mary Brown for mayor.

declare war against something/somebody	to announce a serious campaign against a type of person or a serious problem	The president declared war against crime and criminals. The pressure group declared war on waste.
declare war against something/somebody	to formally announce that one will fight a war with someone or some country	A group of countries declared war against the aggressor.

decorate somebody for something	to award someone a medal or ribbon for doing something important or brave	The town decorated her for her heroic act. She was decorated for her heroism.

decorate something with something	to adorn or ornament something with something	I will decorate the cake with roses made of sugar. Can I decorate your car with streamers for the parade?

dedicate something/somebody to something/somebody	to pledge someone or something to someone, something, a deity, or religious purposes	The elders dedicated the building to the glory of God. He dedicated himself to the prosecution of justice.
dedicate something/somebody to something/somebody	to reserve someone or something for the use of someone or something	The manager dedicated new assistants to the exclusive use of the legal department. The committee dedicated a corner in the library to books on agriculture.

deduce something from something	to infer or conclude something from a set of facts	Can I deduce a bit of anger from your remarks? I deduce nothing from everything I have heard today.

deduct (something) from (something else)	to subtract an amount from another amount	Are you going to deduct this from your income taxes? Mr. Wilson deducted the discount from the bill.

deface something with something	to mutilate or spoil the appearance of something with something	Someone defaced the wall with spray paint. Please don't deface the facilities.

default on something	to fail to act in some way regarding something, such as failing to make a payment, thereby losing one's right to the thing in question	You are not going to default on your loan, are you? She defaulted on her mortgage payments and lost the house.

defect from something	to run away from something; to forsake something	Thousands of soldiers defected from the army. Roger would never think of defecting from the armed services.

defect to something	to forsake one group and take up with another	Will he defect to the other side? David defected to a small East European country.

defend somebody with something	to repel danger from someone with something	Here, defend yourself with this club. Mary defended herself with karate.

defend something/somebody against something/somebody	to advocate the cause of someone or something against someone or something else	The lawyer defended her against the plaintiff. She defended the company against the suit.
defend something/somebody against something/somebody	to stand against an attack; to provide a defense against attack	Don't worry, I will defend you against any muggers. We defended ourselves against the attack. The army defended the town against the enemy soldiers.

defer to somebody	to accept the opinion or judgment of someone else	In the end, you must defer to your boss, because the boss is always right.
defer to somebody	to yield to someone or something on some question or point	I will defer to Mary on that question. She would not defer to the committee on anything.

define something as something	to label something as being something	I define that kind of behavior as just plain rude! We have to define that comment as careless and unthinking.

deflect something away from something/somebody	to divert someone or something away from someone or something; to cause someone or something to veer away from someone or something	The press secretary deflected the reporter's questions from the candidate. The emergency deflected the boss's attention away from my mistake.

defraud somebody out of something	to cheat someone out of something	The crooked contractor defrauded the town out of a fortune. The clerk defrauded the employer out of a great deal of money.

degenerate into something	to decay into something; to break down into something	The peace rally degenerated into a riot. I was afraid that the party would degenerate into a drinking contest.

deign to do something	to lower oneself to do something	She will never deign to join in with us. I expect that he will not deign to have dinner with us.

delegate somebody to something	to appoint someone to something; to appoint someone to be something	I will delegate Jane to be our representative. Donna was delegated to attend the conference.
delegate something to somebody	to assign a task to someone; to appoint someone to do a specific task	I will have to delegate this job to Sam, who knows how to do these things. The job was delegated to Sally.

delete something from something	to remove something from something; to cross something out from something	Will you please delete this paragraph from the contract? The line was deleted from the sales agreement.

deliberate about something/somebody	to think about someone or something; to consider what to do about someone or something	How long do you intend to deliberate about Carol? We will deliberate about this matter as long as it takes to do it right. Let's deliberate on this for a while.

deliberate over something/somebody	to discuss and argue about someone or something	We will deliberate over this question tomorrow. We have been deliberating over Karen long enough.

delight in something/somebody	to take great pleasure in someone or something	I delight in your interest in my work. We all delight in James. What a fine boy!

delight somebody by something	to please someone with something; to please someone by doing something (See also delight someone with something)	You delighted me by agreeing to join us. I was delighted by your proposal.

delight somebody with something	to please someone with something, such as a gift	We delighted Alice with a gift of money. She was delighted with the gift.

deliver somebody from something/somebody	to save or rescue someone from someone or something	The hero delivered the children from a fiery death. Thank you for delivering me from a very boring meeting by calling me to the telephone.

deliver somebody of something	to free someone from some burden or problem; to liberate someone from some confinement	He was looking for someone to deliver him of his burdensome responsibility. He was delivered of his burden.

deliver something up to somebody	to render or yield something to someone	Will you please deliver the documents up to Jane? Will you please deliver up the documents to Jane?

deliver something/somebody to something/somebody	to transfer someone or something to someone or something; to yield over someone or something to someone or something	When will you deliver the deed to me? I will deliver the deed to you when I have your check.

delude somebody into something	to fool someone into thinking something	You can't delude me into believing you. Todd deluded himself into believing he was back at home.

delude somebody with something	to fool or trick someone with something	She deluded us with her clever talk. Don't delude yourself with false hopes.

deluge something/somebody with something	to flood someone or something with water or something similar	The swollen river broke the dam and deluged the town with billions of gallons of water.
deluge something/somebody with something	to overwhelm someone or something with something; to "flood" someone or something with something	The reporters deluged us with questions.

delve into something	to examine or study something carefully; to enter into the examination or study of something	He delved into the solution of the problem facing him. I am just now delving into a study of the Trojan War.

demand something from something/somebody	to command that something be received from someone or a group or something; to demand that someone or a group or something do something	The muggers demanded money from everyone. The petitioners demanded a response from the board of directors. She demanded too much of her automobile.

demonstrate against something/somebody	to make a public show against someone or something	The citizens demonstrated against the new policies. A number of protestors demonstrated against the mayor.

demonstrate for something/somebody	to make a public show in favor of someone or something	We will all demonstrate for Walter's candidacy. A number of supporters demonstrated for the mayor.

demonstrate something to somebody	to show someone how something works	Would you please demonstrate this DVD player to me? I may want to buy it. The new products were demonstrated to the board of directors in advance.

demote somebody from something (to something)	to lower someone's rank from one rank to another	The manager demoted Bill from cashier to clerk. The army demoted her from lieutenant to sergeant.

demur at something	to dispute something; to challenge something	I fear I must demur at your suggestion that I am aloof and condescending. Alice demurred at the suggestion that she was late.

denounce somebody as something	to criticize someone as something; to publicly call someone something bad	The mayor denounced her opponent as a crook. Anne was denounced as a cheater.

denounce somebody for something	to criticize someone publicly for doing something	The candidate denounced the governor for raising taxes. Donna denounced the mayor for incompetence.

dent something up	to mar or make depressions in something	I don't want to dent my car up. It's still new. He dented up my new bike!

denude something/somebody of something	to strip something from someone or something	The prison guards denuded the new prisoner of his garments. The wind denuded the trees of their leaves.

deny something/somebody to somebody	to prevent someone from having someone or something	Would you deny her children to her after all these long months? I would not deny food to a starving man.

depart for some place	to leave for some place	When shall we depart for the airport? When do we depart for St. Petersburg?
depart from some place	to leave from some place or something; to set out from some place or something	When will you depart from here? We departed from Moscow on time.

depend (up)on something/somebody	to rely upon someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Can I depend on you to do this right? You can depend upon me for help.
depend on something/somebody	I depend on my family for money. We depend on getting help.
depend on (somebody) for (something)

dependent on something/somebody

depict somebody as something	to show someone as something; to make someone appear to be something	He did report the fire, but it is going too far to depict him as a hero. The artist depicted himself as a much younger man than he really was.

deplete something of something	to use up all of a certain thing that something has	They will deplete the soil of its nutrients by planting the same crop over and over.

deport somebody (from some place) (to some other place)	to expel or exile someone from one place to another, usually back to their prior country of residence	The government deported Jane from this country to her homeland. They deported Tom to Brazil from this country.

deposit something in(to) something	to put something into something	Please deposit your chewing gum into the wastebasket. You should deposit your money in the bank.

deprive (somebody) of (something)	to take something away from someone	If you don't behave, I will deprive you of your driving rights. They deprived themselves of a good time by pouting.

derive from something	to come from something; to evolve from something (Usually in reference to a word and its etymological history)	This word derives from an ancient Celtic word. What does the English word skirt derive from?
derive something from something	to show how something is descended from something else	Is it possible to derive this word from Greek? Is this word derived from Latin?
derive something from something/somebody	to draw or abstract something from someone or something	She derives a lot of spiritual support from her religion. She derives her patience from her mother.

descend (up)on something/somebody	[for people] to arrive or come to someone or something in great numbers	The petitioners descended upon the mayor's office in droves.
descend (up)on something/somebody	[for something] to come down or fall upon someone or something	Flakes of fluffy snow descended upon the gentle slopes.

descend from somebody	or some group [for a living creature] to come from a particular set of ancestors	I descend from a large family of Dutch traders. Wally is descended from Daniel Boone.
descend from something	to move down from something	The bird descended from the top of the tree to a lower branch. Take care when you descend from the ladder.

descend into something	to go down into something	The butler descended into the cellar for another bottle of wine. Fred descended into the canyon on an organized tour.

descend to something	to condescend to do something; to stoop to doing something; to lower oneself to do something bad	I refuse to descend to the performance of such menial duties. I will not descend to a life of crime.
descend to something	to go down to something	I must descend to the lower level to greet the guests. Gerald descended to the front door to see who was there.

describe something/somebody as something	to describe or portray a person or a thing as something or as being in some particular state	Would you describe her as a woman of average height? We described the building as a collection of contemporary architectural s.

describe something/somebody to somebody	to characterize or portray a particular person or thing to someone	Will you describe her to me, please? Please describe yourself to me so I will know you.

desert (something/somebody) for (something/somebody else)	to leave someone for someone else; to leave something or some place for some other thing or place	She deserted her husband for another man. Many retirees have deserted northern states for the warmer climates of the South.

desert something/somebody to something/somebody	to abandon someone or something to someone or something; to let someone or something have someone or something	Who deserted this child to her horrible fate? Sam deserted his land to the horde of grubby prospectors.

deserve better from something/somebody	to merit better treatment from someone	We deserve better from someone who is supposed to be our friend. I deserve better from Bill.

deserve credit for something	[for someone] to be owed recognition for doing something	He certainly deserves credit for the work he did on the project.

design something for somebody	to conceive of something for someone; to draw up plans of something for someone	Ann designed a new kitchen for us. Would you design a book cover for me?
design something for something	to conceive of something that is to be part of something else; to draw up plans for something that is to be part of something else	The engineers designed a cure for the rattling problem. Bob, the computer programmer, designed a fix for the bug in the program. She designed a system of shelving for the library.

desist from something	to stop doing something	You must desist from further attempts to contact your wife. I wish you would desist from calling me Willie.

despair of something	to give up all hope of something	Do not despair of his returning; I think we will see him again. I despair of ever seeing her again.

despise somebody for something	to hate someone for something or for doing something	I just despise him for running away! She despised herself for her dishonest actions.

despoil something of something	to make something, such as a town, tomb, or building, lose value by stealing from it; to rob something of something	The vandals despoiled the castle of much of its furnishings. The land was despoiled of its fertility by overplanting.

detach something/somebody from something/somebody	to separate or disconnect someone or something from someone or something	The high command detached Wallace from his platoon. The technician detached the sensors from Harry's chest.

detail somebody for something	to choose someone to do a particular task (Originally military)	Sam detailed Private Bailey for guard duty. Donna was detailed for some extra work.

detail somebody to something/somebody	to assign someone to someone or a group (Military)	I will detail Private Bailey to that job. The general detailed a lieutenant to the platoon that was going to the front.

detect something in something	to recognize or identify something in something	Can you detect the anger in her voice? I detect a bit of sarcasm in your comments.

deter from
deter something/somebody from something	to prevent or discourage someone or a group from doing something	We can't seem to deter them from leaving. They were not deterred from their foolish ways.

detract from something/somebody	to lessen or diminish someone or something	The large pieces of furniture detracted from the lovely design in the carpet. Alice's quiet demeanor did not detract from her grace and beauty.

develop from something/somebody (into something/somebody)	to grow or evolve out of someone or something into someone or something else	Her interest in music developed from a childlike curiosity to a full-fledged professional career. The flower developed from a little knot of a bulb.

deviate from something	to wander away from something, such as a path, road, etc.; to vary from the normal procedure	Please do not deviate from the path. You will crush the wildflowers. I will not deviate one inch from the route you have prescribed. They did not deviate from her instructions.

devolve (up)on something/somebody	[for something, such as a task] to be passed on to someone or a group (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	This job, I am afraid, devolves upon you and you alone. The task of repairing the damage devolved on Diane.

devote oneself to something/somebody	to dedicate or give oneself over to someone or something	Do you agree to devote yourself to this task? She devoted herself to raising her children.
devote something/somebody to something/somebody	to dedicate someone or something to the use or benefit of someone or something	I will devote a few of my people to your project. Sarah devoted all of her time to Roger.

dice with death	no; not possible	When I asked about a loan, he said, "No dice." No. It can't be done, no dice.
dice with death	to do something very dangerous (often in continuous tenses)	You're dicing with death driving at that sort of speed on icy roads.

dicker with somebody (for something)	to bargain with someone for something; to haggle with someone for something	I don't want to stand here dickering with you for a cheap trinket. I don't want to waste time dickering with them over a few dollars.

dictate (something) to somebody	to lay out or spell out the exact terms of something to someone; to act as a dictator	You can't dictate the rules to us. Please don't dictate to me.
dictate (something) to somebody	to speak out words to someone who writes them down; to speak words into a recording device to be written down later by someone	Walter dictated a letter to his secretary. Please come in so I can dictate to you.

diddle somebody out of something	to cheat someone into giving up something	The boys diddled the old man out of a few bucks. He was diddled out of his last dime.
diddle something out of somebody	to get something from someone by deception	We diddled about forty bucks out of the old lady who runs the candy shop. They diddled Larry's last dime out of him.

diddle with something	to play with something; to toy with something	Here, don't diddle with that watch. Stop diddling with your nose, Jimmy!

die away	become quieter or inaudible (of a sound)	The last notes DIED AWAY and the audience burst into applause.

die down	calm down,become less strong.	When the applause died down, she started to sing.
die down	decrease or become quieter	It was on the front pages of all the papers for a few days, but the interest gradually DIED DOWN.
die down	to diminish in intensity	After the controversy died down, he was able to lead a normal life again.

die for	want something a lot	I'm DYING FOR the weekend- this week's been so hard.
die for (something)	to really want (something)	I'd die for some enchiladas right now.

die in !

die of

die off/out	become extinct or disappear	Most of the elm trees in the UK DIED OFF when Dutch elm disease arrived. That species died out million years ago. Some scientists say that the dinosaurs DIED OUT when a comet hit the earth and caused a nuclear winter.

die with your boots on	to die while you are still actively involved in your work	I never want to retire. I'd rather die with my boots on.

differ (with somebody) about something	[for someone] to argue with someone about something	Tom was differing with Terry rather loudly about which one of them was going to carry the flag. Let's stop differing with each other on these simple things!
differ (with somebody) about something	[for someone] to disagree with someone about something	I must differ with you about that. We differ about that. I don't differ with you on that point.

differ from something	[for something] to be different from something else	No, this one differs from the one you saw because it has a bigger handle. How does this one differ from that one?

differ in something	[for people or things] to be different in a specific way or in specific ways	They differ only in the color of their eyes and the size of their shoes. They differ in size and shape.

different from

differentiate (something/somebody) from (something/somebody else)	to make people and things different	I will differentiate this one from that one by painting this one red. The twins' mother used different-colored clothing to differentiate Bill from Bob.
differentiate (something/somebody) from (something/somebody else)	to recognize the difference between people and things; to tell the difference between people and things	How do you differentiate this one from that one? Can you differentiate Bill from Bob?

differentiate between (something/somebody and something/somebody else)	to establish or create the difference between people or things	Why don't you paint in some highlights to differentiate between the figure in the foreground and the flowers in the background?
differentiate between (something/somebody and something/somebody else)	to recognize the difference between people or things in any combination (Usually refers to two entities)	In your painting, I cannot differentiate between the costume of the figure in front and the flowers in the background. Can't you differentiate between Billy and his brother? I can't differentiate between a donkey and a burro.

diffuse something through something (else)	to distribute or scatter something through something else	The chemical process diffused the purple color through the liquid. Let us try to diffuse the medication through the bloodstream as rapidly as possible.
diffuse through something	to spread or scatter through something	The smell diffused through the office through the ventilating system. The dye diffused through the water rapidly.

dig at something/somebody	to make a cutting remark about someone or something	She is always digging at her husband's laziness. Fred was digging at the company he works for.
dig at something/somebody	to poke or jab at someone or something	Don't dig at me all the time. My side is getting sore where you jabbed me. Stop digging at the wall! Look at the hole you've made!

dig down	to be generous; to dig deep into one's pockets and come up with as much money as possible to donate to something (As if digging into one's pocket)	Please dig down. We need every penny you can spare. Dig down deep. Give all you can.
dig down	to excavate deeply	They are really having to dig deep to reach bedrock. We are not to the buried cable yet. We will have to dig down some more.

dig for something	to excavate to find something that is buried	They are digging along the river bank for a special kind of clay. I want to dig for gold in Alaska.
dig for something	to go to great pains to uncover information of some kind	The police were digging for some important information while they questioned Mike "Fingers" Moran. There is no point in digging further for the name of the inventor. I have it right here.

dig in	to start eating greedily	We were starving so we really DUG IN when the food finally did arrive.
dig in	to begin to eat food	We dug into the huge pile of fried chicken. I stuck the corner of my napkin in my collar and dug in.
dig in	to begin to process something; to go to work on something	I have to dig into all these applications today and process at least half of them. fed got out the stack of unanswered mail and dug in.
dig in	to start eating, esp	with enthusiasm Jack tossed some salt and pepper on the omelet and dug in. Dig in, boys. The food is getting cold!
dig in	to use a shovel to penetrate a mass of something	He dug into the soft soil and made a hole for the roots of the bush. He grabbed a shovel and dug in where he thought the tree ought to go.
dig something/somebody in something	to poke someone or something in something, such as the ribs, the side, the cheek, etc.	He dug Wally in the ribs as he finished telling the joke. Jed dug the cow in its side with a stick, trying to make it move into the barn.

dig into	to reach inside to get something	She DUG INTO her handbag and pulled out a bunch of keys.
dig something into something	to stab or jab something into something	Dig your fork into that heavenly cake! He dug in his fork.

dig out (of something)	to channel or excavate one's way out of something	The miner had to dig out of the cave-in. They were too exhausted to dig out.
dig out something	to search for something	I dug out a faded picture of my parents playing on the old tennis court.
dig something out	to work hard to locate something and bring it forth	They dug the contract out of the file cabinet. I dug out an old dress and wore it to the Fifties party.
dig something/somebody out of something	to excavate in order to get someone or something out of something; to dig about in order to get someone or something out of something	She dug out the roots of the tree. The dog dug itself out of the rubble of the fallen building.

dig some dirt up (on somebody)	to find out something bad about someone	If you don't stop trying to dig some dirt up on me, I'll get a lawyer and sue you. The citizens' group dug up some dirt on the mayor and used it against her at election time.
dig something/somebody up	to go to great effort to find someone or something (There is an implication that the thing or person dug up is not the most desirable, but is all that could be found)	Mary dug a date up for the dance next Friday. I dug up a recipe for roast pork with pineapple. I dug up a carpenter who doesn't charge very much.
dig up	to find something that is supposed to be secret	The reporters eventually DUG UP the truth about the affair.
dig up	to discover something that is supposed to be secret	The reporter dug up some information that might jeopardize the senator's campaign.
dig up something	to find something, esp	from storage We dug up the old dairy records that showed how much milk each cow produced every day.
Dig up!	Listen carefully! John: All right, you guys! Dig up! You're going to hear this one time and one time only! Bill: Dig up! I'm only going to say this once	Bob: What was that? Bill: I said listen!

digress from something	[for a speaker or writer] to stray from the subject	I am going to digress from my prepared text. You will pardon me if I digress from my point a little.

dilate on something	to speak or write in great detail on some subject	I am sure you do not wish me to dilate further on this matter. If you do not see my point, I would be pleased to dilate on this matter further.

dilly-dally (around) with something/somebody	to waste time frivolously with someone or something	Stop dilly dallying around with your friends. He is always dilly-dallying around with his work.

dim down	[for the lights] to go dim	The lights dimmed down for a few seconds. Open the stage curtain when the house lights dim down.
dim something down	to make lights dim; to use a dimmer to make the lights dimmer	Why don't you dim the lights down and put on some music? Let me dim down the lights and put on some music.

dim out	[for a light] to grow dim and go out altogether	The lights dimmed out twice during the storm. I was afraid that the lights would dim out completely.

dim something up	to use a dimmer to make the lights brighter (Theatrical; A dimmer is a rheostat, variable transformer, or something similar; The expression, a seeming contradiction, is the opposite of dim something down)	As the curtain rose, the electrician dimmed the lights up on a beautiful scene. You dimmed up the lights too fast.

dine at (some place)	to eat at a place	We really like to dine at the small cafe on the corner. I hope we can dine at a fine restaurant for our anniversary.

dine in	to eat at home rather than at a restaurant	I think we will dine in tonight. I am tired of dining in. Let's go out.

dine off something	to make a meal of something; to make many meals of something	Do you think we can dine off the leg of lamb for more than one meal? I hope we dine off the turkey only one more time.

dine on something	to eat something	We are dining on roast beef tonight. What will we be dining on tonight?

dine out	to have dinner outside your home	We DINED OUT because we couldn't be bothered to cook.
dine out on	to tell a story repeatedly that is well received	I've DINED OUT ON the story of his accident.

dip in	to put something in a liquid for a short time	I DIPPED the brush IN the paint and began painting the wall.
dip in	to reach into a liquid	I dipped into the dishwater, looking for the missing spoon. I dipped in and there it was.
dip in	to reach into a substance, usually to remove some of the substance	I dipped into the sour cream with a potato chip and brought out an enormous glob. He grabbed the jar of peanut butter and dipped in.
dip in	[for something] to sink or lower into a liquid	The oars dipped into the water and came out again. The lower branches sagged down to the water and dipped in.
dip something in(to) something	to put something into a substance in order to take some of it	Tom dipped some of the bread into the cheese sauce. Dip in the bread again and get some more cheese on it.

dip into	to read parts of a book, but not all	I've been DIPPING INTO the book, but haven't read it properly.
dip into	to take money out of your savings	I've has to DIP INTO my savings account to pay for the works on my house.
dip into something	the activity of receiving money from two different places or two different jobs, often when it is not honest or legal	The government has introduced tighter rules on employees' pensions to discourage double-dipping (American)
dip into something	to use a small amount of something	The local government voted to dip into the emergency fund to pay for repairing the old town hall.

dip out	to leave a place without telling anyone	The party was so dull I DIPPED OUT.

dip to something	to decline to a lower level quickly or briefly	The temperature dipped into the lower twenties overnight. The stock market dipped to a very low level during the day Friday.

direct something against something/somebody	to aim a critical remark or a weapon at someone or something (Very close to direct something at someone or something)	We directed the guns against the occupied village. Ted said he had directed his remark against Judy.

direct something at something/somebody	to aim something at someone or something (Very close to direct something against someone or something)	Are you directing your remarks at me? Please direct the hose at the bushes.

direct something to somebody	to address, designate, or send something to someone	Shall I direct the inquiries to you? Please direct all the mail to the secretary when it is delivered.
direct something to(ward) something/somebody	to send, throw, push, or aim something at someone or something	Tom directed the ball toward Harry. Should I direct this inquiry to Alice?

dis(s) (on) somebody	to belittle someone; to show disrespect for someone (From either a nonstandard transitive verb disrespect or from dismiss [as in significant]; Dis is also a slang transitive verb)	Gary is such a complainer. All he does is diss on people. Please stop dissing my little sister. She didn't do any of those things.

disabuse somebody of something	to rid someone of an incorrect idea	Please allow me to disabuse you of that assumption. Please disabuse yourself of the notion that you are perfect.

disagree (with somebody) (about something/somebody)	to hold views about someone or something that are opposed to someone else's views	I take it you disagree with me about Tom. Don't disagree about Tom with me. I disagree about this with almost everyone. I disagree with you.
disagree with	to make someone feel sick or ill	I feel dreadful. The prawns I had for lunch are DISAGREEING WITH me.
disagree with somebody about something

disappear into !

disappoint somebody with something/somebody	to displease someone with someone or something	I hope I haven't disappointed you with the modest size of the donation. I disappointed myself with my performance.

disappointed about something

disappointed with/in something/somebody

disapprove of something/somebody	to object to someone or something	I disapprove of her choice for maid of honor. Do you disapprove of me?

disbar somebody from something	to take the right to practice law away from a lawyer	The state board disbarred Todd from practicing law in his own state. Sally was also disbarred from practicing law.

discern between something/somebody and something/somebody	to detect the difference between people and things	I cannot discern between the dark trees and the dark sky behind them. I cannot discern between the person and the background.

discern something from something/somebody	to learn or determine something from someone or something	We discerned a lot from the eyewitnesses. We discerned a lot from our discussions with the past president.
discern something/somebody from something (else)	to detect the difference between someone or something and something else	I can hardly discern Tom from the busy background in this picture. I can't discern anything from that cluttered scene.

discharge somebody from something	to fire someone from a job	The manager discharged Walter from his position with the bank. Walter was discharged from his job.
discharge somebody from something	to permit a person to leave a place, such as a hospital or the armed service	They discharged her from the hospital today. She was well enough to be discharged from the hospital.
discharge something from something	to fire a round from a gun	I discharged two bullets from the gun accidentally. Randy discharged about twenty rounds from his automatic rifle.

discharge something into something	to let something out of something into something else	She discharged some nitrogen from the tank into the laboratory by accident. The technician discharged oxygen into the atmosphere.

discipline somebody for something	to punish or chastise someone for doing something	I will have to discipline you for fighting. Mary was disciplined for taking part in the fiasco.

disclose something to somebody	to tell or reveal something to someone	Tony refused to disclose the location of the papers to me. Please disclose the names to me at once.

disconnect something/somebody from something/somebody	to break the connection between things or people	The telephone operator disconnected Larry from his caller. He disconnected himself from the cords of his parachute.

discourage somebody from something	to dissuade someone from doing something	I hope I can discourage Tom from leaving. I do not want to discourage you from further experimentation.

discourse (up)on	someone or something to lecture about someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	I would like to discourse upon this matter awhile. The committee chose to discourse on Tom and his latest fiasco rather than deal with the budgetary problems it faces.

discriminate against something/somebody	to single out a type of person or thing for special negative treatment or denial of equal treatment; to act in a prejudicial manner against someone or something	This law discriminates against short people. You discriminate against people in wheelchairs.

discriminate between	someone and someone else or something and something else to distinguish between people or between things	I find it hard these days to discriminate between my friends and my enemies. Can you discriminate between this shade of pink and that one?

discuss (something) with (somebody)
discuss something/somebody with somebody	to talk about someone or something with someone	I need to discuss Mickey with you. We need to discuss compensation with the boss.
discuss with

disembark from something	to get off a ship, plane, or train	We disembark from the ship in Manaus. At what time do we expect to disembark from the plane?

disengage (oneself) from something/somebody	to detach oneself from someone or something; to untangle oneself from someone or something	I wanted to disengage myself from the person I was talking to and go home. We disengaged from the argument.
disengage something from something	to detach something from something	Sally disengaged the locking mechanism from the cupboard door and peeked in. The coupling was disengaged from the boxcar, and the car separated and rolled away.

disentangle something/somebody from something/somebody	to untangle someone or something from someone or something	I helped disentangle Tony from the coils of ropes he had stumbled into. They worked feverishly to disentangle the dolphin from the net. He disentangled himself from the net.

disguise somebody in something	to conceal someone's identity in a costume or makeup	We disguised her in men's clothing and got her across the border. She disguised herself in a clown suit.

disguise something/somebody as something/somebody	to dress or make someone up to appear to be someone or something	We disguised the child as a witch. We disguised Gerald as a pumpkin.

dish on somebody	to gossip about or slander someone	Stop dishing on her. She never hurt you! They spent an hour dishing on Wally.

dish out	to criticise when you can't take criticism in return	He DISHES it OUT, but gets all hurt when anyone responds.
dish out	to give something, usually when you shouldn't	Doctors have been DISHING OUT Viagra to anyone who asks for it.
dish out	to serve food	I DISHED OUT the dinner.
dish out	to dispense, give out. Often used in the phrase "to dish out criticism"
dish out something	It is very satisfying to get revenge a long time after the event for which you want revenge	I don't mind waiting to get revenge on Greg; I'll wait ten years if I have to. Revenge is a dish best served cold.
dish out something	to give something too freely and in large amounts (Usage notes: often it is criticism or unfriendly remarks that are dished out)	The mayor was famous for dishing out political favors to his pals. She dished out insults as easily as some of us dish out praise. Sometimes appears as the full expression you can dish it out but you can't take it (you can give criticism freely but you cannot deal with it yourself): I try not to argue with him because I know he can dish it out but he can't take it.
dish out something	to tell people unpleasant or shocking personal information about someone (often + on)	Shauna agreed to dish the dirt on her millionaire ex-lover for a fee of ?5,000. Some journalists just enjoy dishing the dirt.
dish something out	to distribute information, news, etc.	The press secretaries were dishing reports out as fast as they could write them. The company dishes out propaganda on a regular basis.
dish something out	to give out trouble, scoldings, criticism, etc.	The boss was dishing criticism out this morning, and I really got it. The teacher dished out a scolding to each one who was involved in the prank.
dish something out	to serve up food to people	I'll dish it out, and you take it to the table. Careful how you dish out the mashed potatoes. There may not be enough.

dish up	to serve food	He DISHED UP a great dinner when we got back.

dislodge something/somebody from something/somebody	to loosen and remove someone or something from someone or something	We were unable to dislodge her from office. Gene was able to dislodge the bone from his throat.

dismiss something as something	to put something out of one's mind or ignore something as something (The second something can be a noun or an adjective)	I dismissed the whole idea as foolishness. It was not possible to dismiss the whole matter as a one-time happening. Molly dismissed the whole event as accidental.

dismount from something	to get down from something, such as a horse, bicycle, etc.	She dismounted from her horse and fled into the house. Please dismount from the bicycle and wheel it into the shed.

dispatch somebody from (some place)	to send someone from some place	I dispatched a messenger from here over an hour ago. A telegram will be dispatched from my office first thing in the morning.

dispatch something/somebody to something/somebody	to send someone or something to someone, something, or some place	I will dispatch a new copy of the damaged book to you immediately. Gene will dispatch a messenger to you.

dispense with something	to free of something unwanted	People who believe we can dispense with government services don't realize how much they need them.
dispense with something	to get rid of someone or something; to brush someone or something aside	I think we will dispense with that subject for the rest of the day. We will have to dispense with the expensive gifts this year.
dispense with something	to not use something	We dispensed with our second car and have saved a lot of money.

display something to somebody	to show something to someone	The peacock displayed his tail feathers to the other birds. Would you please display the artwork to the committee?

dispose of somebody	to kill someone (See also dispose of someone or something)	Max suggested that he would dispose of Lefty if Lefty continued to be a pest. The boss ordered Max to dispose of Lefty.
dispose of something	People may make plans, but they cannot control the outcome of their plans	Jill: Are you really going to be able to finish writing your novel by the end of the year? Bob: Man proposes, God disposes.
dispose of something	to end a problem	We need to dispose of the threat from diseases that can be easily controlled by vaccination.
dispose of something/somebody	to get rid of someone or something (See also dispose of someone)	How can I dispose of this bothersome customer? Where shall I dispose of this wastepaper?

dispossess somebody of something	to separate someone from a possession	Do you intend to dispossess us of our home? They were dispossessed of the only possessions they had.

disqualify something/somebody for something	to invalidate someone's or something 's claim to something	Does being late for practice disqualify me for the team? This loss disqualifies our team, doesn't it? Does it disqualify us from competition?

dissolve into something	to end in an unpleasant or disorderly way (Usage notes: often said about something that has begun pleasantly or without disagreement)	The discussion quickly dissolved into nasty accusations about her business dealings.
dissolve into something	to lose control and express strong emotions	She dissolved into tears when she saw the damage to her home. Everyone dissolved into gales of laughter at my sister's remark.
dissolve into something	[for a film or television picture] to fade away into some other picture	The scene dissolved into a shot of the interior of the castle. At this point in thescript, dissolve to a face shot of Walter.
dissolve into something	[for a substance to change from a solid state into another state; [for a substance] to melt or liquefy something (Compare this with dissolve in something)	In a hot pan, the sugar dissolved into syrup.
dissolve into something	[for someone] to begin suddenly to display laughter, tears, giggles, gales of laughter, etc. (See also dissolve in something)	The children dissolved into tears. The clown's appearance made the audience dissolve into laughter.
dissolve something into something	to cause a film or television picture to fade away into some other picture (See also dissolve into something {3})	The director dissolved the picture into the next scene. At this point, the opening scene should be dissolved into a side shot of the exterior.

distill something from something	to derive product from something by heating and condensation	They distilled the lighter components from the raw oil. The alcohol was distilled from fermented grain.

distinguish (something) from (something else)
distinguish somebody/something from/between somebody/something

distract somebody from something

distribute something over something	to spread something over something or over an area	Distribute the icing over the entire cake. Walter distributed the sand over the icy spots.

distribute something to somebody	to give out something to someone	Can you distribute this clothing to the needy people who live around here? I will distribute the ice cream to the party guests.

dive in	to start doing something, usually without planning	When we saw what was happening, we all DIVED IN to help.
dive in	to start eating	Dinner's on the table, so DIVE IN.
dive in	to start doing something enthusiastically, often without planning ahead	Don't think about it, just dive in.

dive into	to reach inside something quickly	She DIVED INTO her bag and pulled out a lighter.
dive into something	if you spend your time ducking and diving, you are involved in many different activities, especially ones which are not honest 'What do you do for a living?' 'This and that, ducking and diving.'
dive into something	to fake being knocked out in a boxing match	Wilbur wouldn't take a fall. He doesn't have it in him. The boxer took a dive in the second round and made everyone suspicious.
dive into something	to start something enthusiastically without first thinking about it	Our mistake was to dive into the work without much preparation.

dive off	((of) something) to jump off something headfirst (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Rachel dived off of the rock into the river. She dived off the high diving board.

diverge from something	to move in a different direction from something	Her line of thinking diverged from generally accepted thought on this point. The driveway diverges from the main road beyond the fence, straight ahead.

divert something/somebody from something/somebody	to turn someone or something aside or away from someone or something	We could not divert his attention from his mother. I could not divert the woman from her interest in the book.

divide something (off)	to separate something from something else	Let's divide the chickens off from the ducks and put the chickens in the shed. We divided off the chickens from the ducks.
divide something (off)	to separate something from something else, using a partition	We divided the sleeping area off from the rest of the room. A curtain was used to divide off a sleeping area.

divvy out	to divide, share	The waiters and waitresses DIVVY OUT the tips at the end of the night.

divvy up	to divide, share	We DIVVIED UP the money equally.

do again	I probably wouldn't do it again.

do away with	to abolish, get rid of; kill	The United Kingdom DID AWAY WITH the death penalty in 1965. Most people in this country would like to do away with the death penalty.
do away with something	to discard	It's time to do away with all of these old tax records.
do battle (with something)	to compete or argue with someone	We plan to teach groups that normally do battle with each other to cooperate. Jessie liked to do battle with her brother. Etymology: based on the literal meaning of do battle (to fight against a military force)

do in	He tried to do his father in.

do out of	to cheat somebody out of something that is rightfully theirs	They lied on the reference and DID me OUT OF any chance of getting the job.

do over	to do again	I'm sorry but that's not good enough - You'll have to do it over.
do over something; do something over

do of !

do somebody/something over	to beat up, ransack (Br.E., informal)	He's lucky to be alive. His shop was done over by a street gang.
do something over	to do again (N.Amer.)	My teacher wants me to do my essay over because she doesn't like my topic.

do something up	to fasten, close	Do your coat up before you go outside. It's snowing!
do up	to close or fasten clothes, to dress up; fasten, secure (clothing)	Could you help me do up the buttons at the back of my dress? You must DO UP your safety belt in the back of cars and taxis now. Please do your buttons up.
do up	to repair and renovate	It took them six months to DO UP the house before they could actually move in.

do with	to need

do without	to manage without something	There's no sugar, so you'll have to DO WITHOUT. I guess I will have to do without lunch today. The shops are closed so we'll have to do without sugar. We're going to have to do without a car for a while.
do without	to not require

dock something from something	to withhold money from an amount due to someone	I will have to dock this from your paycheck. The boss docked ten dollars from my monthly pay.

doctor somebody up	to give someone medical treatment, especially first aid	Give me a minute to doctor Fred up, and then we can continue our walk. I'll doctor up Fred with a bandage; you can go on ahead.

dole something out	(to someone) to distribute something to someone	The cook doled the oatmeal out to each camper who held out a bowl. Please dole out the candy bars, one to a customer. She doled it out fairly.

done with something

dope somebody (or an animal) up	to give drugs to someone or an animal	Her parents doped her up with medicine so she would sleep through the night. It's dangerous to dope up a child night after night. The trainer got caught doping the horse up.

doss about	to spend time doing very little or being unproductive	I could not get down to my work and DOSSED ABOUT all night.

doss around	to spend time doing very little or being unproductive	I spent the afternoon DOSSING AROUND.

doss down	to sleep somewhere temporarily because you don't go home	I was feeling really tired, so I DOSSED DOWN on his sofa for the night.
doss down (for some time)	to lie down to sleep for a period of time	Chuck dossed down for a few hours before the evening performance. It's midnight: time to doss down.

dote on somebody/something	to love someone or something a lot, sometimes foolishly or too much	The world is full of people who dote on their pets. Related vocabulary: love somebody to death.

double as something/somebody	[for someone] to serve in two capacities	The chairman will have to double as CEO until we find a new one. This table doubles as a desk during busy times.

double back (on something/somebody)	[for a person or animal] to reverse motion, moving toward (rather than away from) someone or something (Refers primarily to a person or animal that is being pursued by someone or a group)	The deer doubled back on the hunter. The robber doubled back on the police, and they lost track of him. I doubled back on my own trail.

double over	to suddenly bend forward and down, usually because of pain or laughter	A sudden, sharp pain made him double over.
double over	[for a person] to bend at the waist	Suddenly, he doubled over and collapsed. The people in the audience doubled over with laughter.
double somebody over	to cause someone to bend at the waist	The blow to the back of the head doubled Steve over. The wind almost doubled over the children running for home.

double up (with laughter)	to laugh so hard that one bends over	We all just doubled up with laughter. I doubled up when I heard the punch line.
double up (with somebody)	to share a room or or living situation with others	The two boys will have to double up in the front bedroom.
double up (with somebody)	to share with someone	We don't have enough books. Tom, will you double up with Jane? When we get more books, we won't have to double up anymore.

doubt of/about

down to !

doze off	to fall asleep	The movie was a bit boring and I DOZED OFF halfway through. He dozed off for a couple of hours.

draft somebody for something	to select someone for something or to do something	We drafted a bunch of the boys for moving tables. The committee drafted some of the members for kitchen work.

draft somebody into something	to conscript someone into the armed services	The draft board drafted Scott into the army. Todd was drafted into the army.
draft somebody into something	to convince someone to participate in something	She drafted some of the boys into helping her move tables. They were drafted into helping.

drag on	to be unnecessarily long	The meeting DRAGGED ON for two and a half hours.
drag on	to last much longer than expected	I thought that film would be short, but it really dragged on. We expected a short speech but it dragged on and on!

drag through !

drag something away (from something )	to push or pull something away from something or some place	He dragged the sofa away from the wall so he could clean behind it. He had to drag away the sofa in order to plug in the lamp. We worked together to drag it away.

drag/haul somebody over !

dragoon somebody into something	to force someone into doing something	We dragooned the boys into helping us. She was trying to dragoon some of the men into setting up the banquet tables.

drain away	[for something] to flow away	All the water drained away and exposed the mud and rocks on the bottom of the pond. When the water drained away, we found three snapping turtles in the bottom of the pond.
drain something away	(from something) to channel some liquid away from something	Drain all of the standing water away from the foundation of the house. Drain away the water from the foundation.

drain from something	to flow out of something	All the dirty oil drained from the engine. The milk drained from the leaky container and covered the bottom of the refrigerator.
drain something from something/somebody	to cause something to flow out of someone or something	The farmers drained the water from the flooded fields. The doctor drained the fluids from Roger after his operation.

drain something out of something	to cause something to flow from something; to empty all of some liquid out of something	She drained the last drop out of the bottle. She drained out all the water in the pot.
drain out	to flow out or empty	All the milk drained out of the container onto the bottom of the refrigerator. All the oil drained out of the crankcase.

drain something of something	to empty something out of something	He drained the glass of the remaining beer.
drain something/somebody of something	to exhaust someone or something of something, such as energy, motivation, etc.	This day has drained me of all my motivation. The first performance drained the cast of all its energy.

drain something off something	to flow from the surface or contents of something	Drain some of the broth off the chicken. Drain off the fat at the bottom of the pan.

drape oneself over something	to sprawl on a piece of furniture	He draped himself over the armchair and dropped off to sleep. He came in and casually draped himself over grandmother's antique chair.

drape something around something/somebody	to wrap or hang something around someone or something	She draped the shawl around her shoulders and felt a little warmer. Mother draped a towel around Timmy after his bath.

drape something/somebody in something	to wrap or cover someone or something in something	They draped her in golden silks, but she still looked like a country girl. They draped the tables in polka-dot cloth for the party.

drape something/somebody with something	to hang something on or over someone or something	They draped each guest with a makeshift toga. They draped the statue with a brightly colored loincloth.

drape/wrap in !

draw over something !

draw against !

draw back	to retreat, move backwards	He DREW BACK when the dog barked.

draw down	to get funding	The college wants to DRAW DOWN extra funding for IT provision.
draw down	to reduce levels	The administration wants to DRAW DOWN troop numbers as soon as they can.
draw down	to deplete by consumption or heavy spending	Gas reserves were DRAWN DOWN in the recent cold spell.

draw in	to arrive at a station (for trains)	The train DREW IN and we got off.
draw in	to get dark earlier	The nights are DRAWING IN now it's winter.

draw into	to get involved in something unpleasant	I didn't want to take sides because I didn't want to get DRAWN INTO their arguments.

draw near	[for a particular time] to approach	The time to depart is drawing near. As the time for her speech drew near, Ann became more and more nervous. As the time drew near,...

draw on	to inhale smoke from a cigarette, cigar, etc.	He DREW ON his cigarette and coughed.
draw on	to pass slowly (time)	As the lesson DREW ON, the students started to get bored.

draw out	to make a shy person more outgoing	He was so quiet at first, but the teacher managed to DRAW him OUT and get him to participate.
draw out	to make something continue longer than needed	The director DREW the meeting OUT with a lengthy speech.
draw out	to make something last longer than necessary (often used in the passive form: to be drawn out)	His speech was really drawn out.

draw up	to prepare a contract	The contract was DRAWN UP by our solicitor.
draw up	to organize; to create	The residents of the building drew up a plan to catch the thief.
draw up	when a vehicle stops	The police car DREW UP alongside him at the red lights and asked him to pull over.
draw up	to write (contract, agreement, document)	An agreement was drawn up and signed by the two parties.

dream about/of something/somebody	He dreams about being a doctor. He dreams about playing ball.
dream of/about	to think or consider	I wouldn't even DREAM OF telling her that. He dreams of Maria. He dreams of being a doctor. He dreams of playing ball.

dream up	to invent something, have an idea	They DREAMED UP the scheme for the improvements and it was accepted by the board. To invent. To make up.

dredge up	to discover things about someone's past	They DREAMED UP the scheme for the improvements and it was accepted by the board.
dredge up something	to find something after a lot of looking	We've finally dredged up enough money to have a proper lab with proper equipment.
dredge up something	to remember something from the past	He hates it when people dredge up the crimes that happened here 20 years ago. You're not dredging that old idea up again, are you? Usage notes: often said about something unpleasant.
dredge up something	to scoop something up from underwater	The workers dredged the lifeless body up from the cold black water. They dredged up the mud from the riverbed.
dredge up something	to use some effort to seek and find someone or something	I will see if I can dredge a date up for Friday. Can you dredge up a date for me? I don't have a wrench here, but I'll see if I can dredge one up from the basement.

drench something/somebody in something	to soak someone or something in something	A sudden summer shower drenched them in sheets of rain. My raincoat was drenched with droplets from the foggy night air.

dress ( oneself ) up	to dress in fancy dress	They dressed themselves up in their finest. Please dress up for the dance.
dress (up) as something/somebody	to dress in the manner of someone or something	l am going to dress up as a ghost for Halloween. Larry will dress up as the pumpkin from Cinderella.
dress somebody up (as something/somebody )	to dress someone to look like or impersonate someone or something	She dressed her little girl up as a witch for Halloween. She dressed up her little girl as a fairy.
dress something up	to make something look better or different than it really is	No matter how you dress it up, the fact is that we lost. His business record is a string of failures dressed up as successes. Usage notes: often followed by as, as in the second example.
dress something/somebody up	to make someone or something appear fancier than is actually so	The publicity specialist dressed the actress up a lot. They dressed up the hall so it looked like a ballroom.
dress something/somebody up (in something)	to clothe, decorate, or ornament someone or something in something	She dressed her dolls up in special clothing. She dressed up her dolls in tiny outfits.
dress up	to disguise oneself	Children love to dress up at Halloween.
dress up	to dress very smartly	It's an informal party so there's no need to DRESS UP.
dress up	to wear elegant clothes; wear nice clothing	I love dressing up to go to the theater. Do people dress up to go to the opera in your country? It's a fancy restaurant so we have to dress up.

dress down	to dress casually	The staffs are allowed to DRESS DOWN on Fridays.
dress down	to scold	She DRESSED me DOWN for being rude.
dress down	to wear informal clothes (Usage notes: often said about wearing informal clothes at work)	I dress down if I know I'm just going to be moving boxes of documents at work.

dress for somebody	to clothe oneself to please someone	I don't dress for you! Don't tell me how I should look! Sally says she dresses for her friends, but she really dresses for herself.
dress for something	to clothe oneself suitably for some occasion or activity, or for success	Finally, I learned to dress for success. I can wear my tuxedo if you want me to dress for the formal dinner.

dress in

dress somebody down	an offensive way of saying that a woman is dressed in a style that is more suitable for a much younger woman	Do you think this skirt is too short? I don't want to look like mutton dressed as lamb.
dress somebody down	to bawl someone out; to give someone a good scolding	The drill sergeant dressed down the entire squadron for failing inspection. I'm really late. I know my parents will dress me down when I get home.
dress somebody down	to tell someone angrily what they have done wrong	She dressed him down in front of a large group of his co-workers. He dresses down players on their performance in the games.

drift along	to float along; to be carried along on no particular course	The boat just drifted along lazily with the current. The project drifted along until we received the leadership we needed.

drift apart	slowly cease to be close to or friends with someone	We were great friends at school but DRIFTED APART when we went to different universities.
drift apart	[for floating things] to separate as they drift	The boats drifted apart from one another. The boats drifted apart in the waves.
drift apart	[for people] to lead their lives without contact with each other having been together or friendly	He drifted apart from his friends. As the years went by, they drifted apart.

drift away	(from someone or something) [for floating people, animals, or things] to move away from a particular person or thing, on the surface of water (See also)	We watched the boat drift away from us. He was drifting away on the ice block and there was nothing we could do.

drift back (to something/somebody)	to move back to someone or something slowly, on the surface of water	The canoe drifted back to shore. My little boat finally drifted back to me.

drift in	(to something) to move slowly and gradually into something	The people drifted slowly into the hall. The boats drifted into the shore on the tide.

drift off	to start to fall asleep	I was DRIFTING OFF when the noise disturbed me.
drift off	The police drove out the crowd from the stadium.
drift off	to move slowly away	The boat slowly drifted off and was gone. The clouds drifted off and the sun came out.

drift out	to move out of a place slowly	After there was no more food, the people drifted out, one by one. The boat drifted out and almost got away.

drift toward something/somebody	to move slowly and gradually toward someone or something	The clouds drifted toward us, and we could see that a storm was coming. As the clouds drifted toward us, we could feel the humidity increase.

drift with something	to "move along" passively with events and ideas	He is not very decisive and is as likely as not to drift with the tide of sentiment.
drift with something	to float along with something; to be carried along at the same rate as something	He paddled the canoe into the center of the stream and let it drift with the current.

drill down	search through layers of information on a computer	I really had to DRILL DOWN to get the answers from the database.
drill down (to something)	to bore downward to something or some distance	We drilled down to a layer of waterbearing sand, hoping to make a well. They had to drill down to bedrock to make a base for the piers that hold the building up.
drill down through	get to the bottom of something, get detailed data	They DRILLED DOWN THROUGH the information to find the truth.

drill in (to something)	to bore into or penetrate something	The worker drilled into the wall in three places. Please don't drill into the wall here, where it will show.
drill somebody in something	to give someone practice in something	Now, I am going to drill you in irregular verbs. The teacher drilled the students in the use of the passive.

drill into	repeat something many times to make someone learn it	The teacher DRILLED the rules INTO the students.
drill something into somebody	to have something repeated very frequently	You learn vocabulary by having it drilled into you.
drill something into something/somebody	to force knowledge into someone or something	Learn this stuff! Drill it into your brain. Drill in this information so you know it by heart!

drink somebody under !

drink something down	to drink something; to consume all of something by drinking it	Here, drink this down, and see if it makes you feel better. Drink down this medicine.

drink something in	to absorb something; to take in information, sights, a story, etc.	Terry and Amy drove up to the top of the hill to drink the sights in. They drank in the beautiful view.

drink something up	to drink all of something that is served or that is on hand	Who drank all the root beer up? I drank up the root beer.
drink up	to finish a drink	DRINK UP, please, it's closing time. Finish your drink!; Finish that drink, and we'll have another! Okay, drink up! It's closing time. Drink up, and let's get going.

drink to somebody	a way of referring to alcohol when you are talking about the unpleasant effects it can have	My grandfather used to lecture us about the dangers of the demon drink.
drink to somebody	to wish good health or good luck to someone (Usage notes: usually said as a toast (a short statement celebrating something and followed by everyone present drinking some wine or other liquid))	Let's drink to Jessica's new job.
drink to something/somebody	to toast someone or something; to take an alcoholic drink in honor of someone or something	I'll drink to that! Let us drink to our guest of honor, Wallace J. Wilson!

drip in	(to something) [for a liquid] to fall into something drop by drop	The water dripped into the bowl we had put under the leak. Is the water still dripping in the bathtub?

drip something into something	to make something fall into something drop by drop	Alice dripped a little candle wax into the base of the candlestick. Don't pour it all into the jar. Drip in a little at a time.

drip with something	to be heavy or overloaded with something to the point of overflowing	The foliage dripped with the heavy morning dew. Her clothing dripped with seawater as she climbed back onto the deck.
drip with something	[for someone's speech] to show certain states of mind or attitudes	Her voice dripped with sarcasm. The old lady's voice dripped with sweetness and affection.

drive (somebody) out	to make (someone) leave and/or stay away	The police drove out the crowd from the stadium.
drive out	to force someone to leave a place	The soldiers DROVE them OUT of their homes.

drive through something !

drive down !

drive between somebody/something !

drive away	to force an animal or someone to leave a place	Their unfriendliness DRIVES customers AWAY.

drive back	to repulse, force back	The police DROVE the crowd BACK to give the rescue workers more space.

drive by	to do something out of a car	He was killed in a DRIVE-BY shooting.

drive off	to drive away from a place	She slammed the car door shut and DROVE OFF without saying a word. I said good-bye and drove off.

drive on	We drove on till night.

drive somebody around !

drive somebody into !

drive somebody to !

drive up	to make something increase	The market uncertainty has DRIVEN prices UP.
drive up	to raise. To cause to increase (prices, rates, etc.)	The new policies drove up prices.

drive/send somebody round !

drizzle down	(on someone or something) to rain on someone or something	The light rain drizzled down on the garden. The rain drizzled down and soaked us because we had no umbrella.

drone (something) out	to make a loud and low-pitched noise; to say something in a low-pitched and monotonous manner	The announcer droned the winning numbers out. She droned out the winning numbers.

drone on	to talk boringly for a long time	The minister DRONED ON for an hour and the audience looked increasingly bored.
drone on (about something/somebody)	to lecture or narrate in a low-pitched, dull, and boring manner	The dull old professor droned on about Byron - ;or was it Keats? It was Shelley and, yes, he did drone on.

drool (all) over something/somebody	to drip saliva on someone or something	You're drooling all over my plate! The dog drooled all over my hand.
drool (all) over something/somebody	to envy or desire someone or something (Alludes to drooling from hunger)	The boys stood there, drooling over the fancy sports car. Wally Wilson spent many hours drooling over photographs of Marilyn.

drop around	to deliver	I DROPPED AROUND the things they needed.
drop around	to visit someone, often without making an arrangement	We DROPPED AROUND to collect the stuff we'd left there last week.

drop away	to become smaller- amount, numbers	The numbers of people attending the function began DROPPING AWAY after a few months.

drop back	to move back in a position/group	Andrea dropped back to third place when she fell off her bike.
drop back	to move towards the back of a group	He stared at the front, but got tired and DROPPED BACK as the race went on.

drop by	to pay a brief visit	He DROPPED BY on his way home from work.
drop by	to visit someone unexpectedly	My parents dropped by last Saturday. I hope you guys can drop by our house some time.

drop in	to visit without having made arrangements	I was in the area so I DROPPED IN at the office to see her.
drop in	to visit, usually on the way somewhere	I sometimes drop in to see my grandparents on my way home from school.
drop in (on)	to visit someone unexpectedly	My parents dropped in on me last Saturday. I can't believe who dropped in on us last night.
drop in on somebody
drop in/by/over	to come without an appointment	I might drop in/by/over for tea sometime this week.
drop somebody in it	to get someone into trouble	I really DROPPED him IN IT when I told them what he had done.

drop off	to decrease in number or amount	Sales have DROPPED OFF in the last few months.
drop off	to deliver someone or something	I'll drop you off at the bus stop if you like. I'll drop you off at around 7 PM.
drop off	to fall asleep	I DROPPED OFF during the play and woke up when it ended. Granddad often drops off in front of the TV. You can drop me off at the next red light.
drop off	to take something or someone to a place and leave it or them there	I DROPPED the kids OFF at school on my way to work.
drop off something/somebody; drop something/somebody off
drop somebody/something off	to take someone/something somewhere and leave them/it there	I have to drop my sister off at work before I come over.

drop out	to leave school without finishing.	She decided to go to art school, then dropped out after the first term.
drop out	to quit a class, school etc.	I dropped out of Science because it was too difficult. She dropped out of school last year, but now she wants to go back.
drop out (of school, an organization)	to quit a course	She DROPPED OUT of college and went straight into a good job.

drop over	to visit for a short time	I will DROP OVER on my way back.

drop round	to deliver	I DROPPED the papers ROUND so she could read them before the meeting.
drop round	to visit someone, often without making an arrangement	We DROPPED ROUND their house on our way.

drop through	to come to nothing, produce no results	The big scheme he was talking about seems to have DROPPED THROUGH.

drop/fall into your lap	if something good falls into your lap, you get it without making any effort	You can't expect the ideal job to just fall into your lap - you've got to go out there and look for it.

drown (somebody or an animal) in something	to cause someone or an animal to die of asphyxiation in a liquid	He accidentally drowned the cat in the bathtub. She drowned herself in the lake.
drown in	to cover excessively	They DROWN the food IN sauce.
drown in something	to be asphyxiated in some liquid	Wouldn't you hate to drown in that nasty, smelly water? lam not choosy about what I don't want to drown in.
drown in something	to experience an overabundance of something	We are just drowning in cabbage this year. Our garden is full of it. They were drowning in bills, not money to pay them with.
drown somebody in something	to inundate someone with something (See also drown in something)	I will drown you in money and fine clothes. Mike drowned the nightclub singer in fancy jewels and furs.

drown out	to be so loud that another sound cannot be heard	The music DROWNED OUT the sound of the phone ringing.
drown out something	to make it impossible to hear something	The plane was flying so low, the roar of its engines drowned out our conversation.
drown somebody (or an animal) out	[for a flood] to drive someone or an animal away from home	The high waters almost drowned the farmers out last year. The water drowned out the fields.
drown something/somebody out	[for a sound] to be so loud that someone or something cannot be heard	The noise of the passing train drowned out our conversation. The train drowned us out.

drum into	to make someone learn or believe something by constant repetition	They DRUM all the traps INTO you before the test, so you can not go wrong.

drum out	to force someone out of their job or position	They DRUMMED the minister OUT when she was caught lying. The minister was DRUMMED OUT of her post for lying.
drum somebody out of something	to expel or send someone away from something, especially in a formal or public fashion	They drummed Bill out of the bridge club for having a bad attitude. The corps drums out a few cadets each year.
drum somebody out of something	to force someone to leave a job or organization	A lot of writers and directors were drummed out of the film business in the 1950s because they were suspected of being communists.
drum something out	to beat a rhythm, loudly and clearly, as if teaching it to someone	Drum the rhythm out before you try to sing this song. Drum out the rhythm first.

drum something into somebody	to teach someone something intensely	Her mother had drummed good manners into her. She drummed in good manners day after day.
drum something into somebody	to teach something to someone by frequent repetition	Firefighters rely on training that's drummed into them through repeated exercises.

drum something up	to obtain something by attracting people's attention to one's need or cause	I shall try to drum up support for the party. You shall have to drum up new business by advertising. I need to do something to drum some business up.
drum up	to increase support or interest	They are trying to DRUM UP support for the referendum.
drum up something	to create interest in something	The best way to drum up excitement for a book is to get people to talk about it.

dry out	to allow alcohol and the effects of drunkenness, especially if habitual, to dissipate from one's body	He required about three days to dry out completely. He dried out in three days.
dry out	to become dry	The clothes finally dried out in the wet weather. The clothes finally dried out.
dry somebody out	to cause someone to become sober; to cause someone to stop drinking alcohol to excess	If the doctor at the clinic can't dry him out, no one can. The hospital will dry out Mary and start treatment.
dry something out	to make something become dry	Dry this out and put it on immediately. Dry out your jacket in the clothes dryer.

dry something up	to cause moisture to dry away to nothing	Dry this spill up with the hair dryer. Will the hair dryer dry up this mess?
dry something up	to cure a skin rash by the use of medicine that dries	Let's use some of this to try to dry that rash up. This medicine will dry up your rash in a few days.
dry up	to disappear	Many of those jobs dried up in the 1990s. Funding has all but dried up for new research in the field.
dry up	[for someone] to be quiet or go away	Dry up, you jerk! I wish you would dry up!
dry up	[for something] to dry away to nothing	Finally, the water on the track dried up, and the race was able to continue. When will the fields dry up so we can plant?

dry something/somebody off	to remove the moisture from someone or something	Please dry your feet off before coming in. Dry off your feet before you come in here!

dub something in	to mix a new sound recording into an old one	The actor messed up his lines, but they dubbed the correct words in later. They dubbed in his lines.

dub something over	to record a replacement sound over another sound in a recording	They had dubbed over all the dialog in the movie. It doesn't matter if you say a word wrong on the tape. We can dub it over.

duck down	to stoop down quickly, as if to avoid being hit	He ducked down when he heard the gunshot. Duck down and get out of the way.

duck out (of something)	to evade something; to escape doing something	Are you trying to duck out of your responsibility? Fred tried to duck out of going to the dance.
duck out (of somewhere)	to leave a place quickly and without being noticed (Usage notes: often said about leaving before an event is finished)	The press was waiting for us in front of the hospital, so we ducked out a side door into the car. She ducked out of the dinner to watch the last quarter of the game.
duck out of	to avoid doing something	He DUCKED OUT OF helping us last night.

duff up	to beat or hit someone repeatedly	He was DUFFED UP in a night club last night.

dumb down	to reduce the intellectual level of something in search of popularity	Television has been DUMBING DOWN the news for years.

dump on something/somebody	and do a dump on someone or something; dump all over someone or something S(	to criticize someone or something; to destroy someone or something. There is no need to do a dump on me. I didn't wreck your car. The boss - ;mad as a wet hen - ;dumped all over me.
dump on something/somebody	to snow on someone or something	Well, it dumped on us again last night. The cold front dumped on the northeast again today.
dump something on somebody	to pour out one's troubles to someone	She dumped all her grief on her friend, Sally. I wish you wouldn't dump all your problems on me.

dumped on	maligned; abused	I really feel dumped on by all the bad reviews in the press. The jerk who designed this stupid congested stairway hasn't been dumped on enough.
dumped on	snowed on	The entire Midwest was dumped on with about ten inches of snow. Our town really got dumped on last night.

dunk something/somebody into something	to submerge someone or something in something, fully or partially	They dunked him into the pool as a way of celebrating. Liz pulled the cup of coffee toward herself and dunked in her doughnut. She dunked herself into the cold water for just a minute.

dust somebody off	to punch or beat someone	We dusted them off one by one. We had to dust off all those big guys. dust someone or something off to wipe or brush the dust off someone or something. Dust this vase off and put it on the shelf. Please dust off this vase.
dust something off	to make something usable after it has not been used for a long time	It's a good time to dust off your resume and see if you can get some work. Byrne dusted off some of the band's classics in Tuesday's concert.
dust yourself off	to prepare yourself to continue doing something you unexpectedly stopped doing	Everyone wonders if the nation can dust itself off after the disaster.

dust something out	to brush the dust out of something	Dust this cabinet out and put the china back in. Please dust out this cabinet.

dwell (up)on something/somebody	to remain on the [important] subject of someone or something for a long time (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	I can't dwell upon this subject anymore. There is no need to dwell on Sarah further.
dwell on	to spend a lot of time on something	The programme DWELLED ON the atrocities against women.
dwell on (something)	to spend a lot of time thinking about something. Often has a slightly negative connotation	Stop dwelling on the past!

dwell upon	to spend a lot of time on something	She DWELT UPON the economic situation in her speech.

dwindle away	(to something) and dwindle down (to something) to shrink, contract, or diminish to something	The noise dwindled away to nothing. It just dwindled down and was gone.


earmark something for something/somebody	to reserve something for someone or something	Tom earmarked the best of the steaks for his special guests. I have earmarked this chair for the family room.

ease (on) out	to continue moving out of something, slowly and carefully	I was able to ease on out of the parking space, but only with difficulty. I looked both ways and eased on out.
ease (on) out	to leave something, such as an office or position, quietly and without much embarrassment	The bum finally eased on out of office without much public notice. He eased out while the press was concerned with some other crisis.
ease somebody (on) out	to help someone continue to get out of something	We helped ease heron out of the car. With care, we eased her on out. After taking a look around, Tom eased himself out of the opening.
ease somebody (on) out	to help someone decide to leave something, such as an office or position, quietly and without much embarrassment	The scandal eased her on out of office in a way that an election might not have. The scandal eased her on out.
ease somebody out of something	to get someone out of an office or position quietly and without much embarrassment	We eased the sheriff out of office with out a fight. The board eased out the chairman by offering him a huge bonus.
ease somebody out of something	to get someone out of something carefully	The paramedics eased the injured man out of the wreckage. Please ease out the patient carefully.

ease (something/somebody) down	(from something) to bring someone or something downward from something gently	The rescuers eased the injured hiker down from the mountain. They eased down the hiker carefully.

ease away (from something/somebody)	to pull away from someone or something slowly and carefully	The great ship eased away from the pier. The ship eased away slowly.

ease back	(on something) to move something back slowly and carefully (Usually refers to a throttle or some other control on an airplane or other vehicle)	Ann eased back on the throttle and slowed down. Please ease back on the volume control a little. You will deafen us.

ease off	(on someone or something) and ease up (on someone or something) to reduce the urgency with which one deals with someone or something; to put less pressure on someone or something	Ease off on John. He has been yelled at enough today. Yes, please ease off. I can't stand any more. Tell them to ease up on the horses. They are getting tired.
ease off	to reduce pressure	She EASED OFF the accelerator to let the car slow down. The storm eased off a little.
ease off	to reduce, become less severe or slow down (pain, traffic, work ...)	After Christmas, the workload generally eases off.
ease off	[for something] to diminish	The rain began to ease off. The storm seems to have eased off a little.
ease off (on something/somebody)	to reduce the urgency with which one deals with someone or something; to put less pressure on someone or something	Ease off on John. He has been yelled at enough today. Yes, please ease off. I can't stand any more. Tell them to ease up on the horses. They are getting tired.
ease off/ease up (on)	to reduce pressure; To become less intense	The senator eased off on his attacks.

ease something/somebody along	to help someone or something to move along, very carefully	Just ease the piano along little by little. She eased the shy child along.

ease up	to relax, calm down	She asked her teacher to EASE UP because she was feeling very stressed.

eat (a meal) out	to eat a meal at a restaurant	I like to eat a meal out every now and then. Yes, it's good to eat out and try different kinds of food. It costs a lot of money to dine out often.
eat out	toeat in a restaurant	We couldn't be bothered to cook so we ATE OUT last night. I don't feel like cooking tonight. Let's eat out.
eat out	to eat a meal away from home, as at a restaurant	I just love to eat out every now and then. Let's eat out tonight. I'm tired.
eat out	to eat at restaurants, outside the home	David loves going to new restaurants - he eats out almost every night.
eat something out	to eat some kind of meal or a particular food away from home, as at a restaurant	We eat fish out, but we don't cook it at home. We may eat out a meal or two, but certainly not every meal.
eat something out	[for something or an animal] to consume the inside of something	The ants ate the inside of the pumpkin out. The ants ate out the pumpkin.

eat away	to destroy slowly	The disease EATS the liver AWAY.

eat crow	to be shamed; to admit that one was wrong	When it became clear that they had arrested the wrong person, the police had to eat crow. Mary talked to Joe as if he was an uneducated idiot, till she found out he was a college professor. That made her eat crow.
eat crow	to display total humility, especially when shown to be wrong	Well, it looks like I was wrong, and I'm going to have to eat crow. I'll be eating crow if I'm not shown to be right.

eat crow	to publicly admit you were wrong about something	Charles had to eat crow and tell them they were right all along.

eat in	to eat at home	We didn't feel like going to a restaurant so we ATE IN. I don't feel like going out tonight - let's eat in.

eat into	to use something valuable when you don't want to	We've had to EAT INTO our savings since I lost my job.

eat somebody/something for !

eat up	to consume	This car EATS UP petrol.
eat up	to consume something you don't want to be consumed	The graphics EAT UP our bandwidth- they're costing us a fortune.
eat up	to eat all of something	If you don't EAT UP your greens, you won't get any dessert. Eat up, and let's go.

eavesdrop on somebody	to listen in on people having a private conversation	I saw her eavesdropping on them. Please don't eavesdrop on me.
eavesdrop on something	to listen in on a private conversation	She was eavesdropping on their conversation. Maria was eavesdropping on the telephone call.

ebb away	to disappear gradually	His life was EBBED AWAY as the illness progressed.

echo back to something	[for something] to recall something similar in the past	This idea echoes back to the end of the last century, when people thought this way.

edge away	The students laughed and edged away from him.

edge out	gradually push someone or something out of their position	The shareholders EDGED the CEO out because results were getting worse.
edge out	to defeat, barely	David edged out the other runners and won the race.

edge up	to approach slowly	She EDGED UP behind the bus at the red light.

edit something out of something	to strike out words or sentences from something that is going to be published; to cut out textual material in the editing process	She edited the foul language out of the essay. Frank edited out the misspelled words.

educate somebody for something	to train someone for something or to do something	I wasn't educated for doing this kind of thing. He had spent many years educating himself for just this kind of job.

educate somebody in something	to train someone about something; to school someone in something	Her parents educated her in the ways of the old country. She had educated herself in the ways of big business.

egg (somebody) on	to urge/ push someone to do something	The boy always eggs his friends on to do stupid things.
egg on	to encourage	The other students EGGED him ON when he started arguing with the teacher.
egg somebody on	to encourage, urge, or dare someone to continue doing something, usually something unwise	John wouldn't have done the dangerous experiment if his brother hadn't egged him on. The two boys kept throwing stones because the other children were egging them on.

eject (somebody) from	some place to use force to make someone leave a place; to throw someone out of some place	The management ejected Sam from the theater. He was ejected from the theater.

eke out	to make something like money last as long as possible	Most students have to EKE OUT their income because they have so little money to live on.
eke something out	to extend something; to add to something	He worked at two jobs in order to eke his income out. He managed to eke out a living.

elaborate on (something/somebody)	to give additional details about someone or something	Would you care to elaborate on that? I want to know more about Kelly. Could you elaborate on her?

elbow somebody aside	to push someone aside with one's elbow or arm	She elbowed the other woman aside and there was almost a fight. The rude woman elbowed aside all the other people.

elbow somebody out of something and elbow somebody out	to force or pressure someone out of something, such as an office, post, or status	The board managed to elbow out the old head of the company. They tried to elbow me out, but I held on to what was mine.

elect somebody (as) something	to select someone to be something by ballot	We elected her as our representative. She was elected as our president.

elect somebody to something	to select someone to be a member of something by ballot; to select someone to be an officer in something by ballot	We elected you to office, so do your job. Tom was elected to the congress.

elevate something/somebody to something	to raise the status of someone to something; to promote someone to something higher, such as a job, a better status, etc.	The success elevated her to a new rank and higher pay. The boss's attention elevated the policy question to the highest priority. She sought to elevate herself to some sort of social goddess.

elicit something from somebody	to obtain information from someone	I hoped to elicit a statement from the mayor, but I could not reach her. Larry was not able to elicit anything new from Jane.

eliminate something/somebody from something	to remove someone or something from something	We had to eliminate Jeff from the list. The cook eliminated veal from the menu. She sought to eliminate herself from consideration.

elope with somebody	to sneak away with someone and get married without much ceremony	Sally eloped with Tom, and everyone was surprised. I don't want to elope with Juan. I want a church wedding.

emanate from something/somebody	to arise from or come out of someone or something	A strange smell emanated from the basement. Some kind of eerie light emanated from the eyes of the statue.

emancipate somebody from something/somebody	to free someone from someone or something	The president emancipated the slaves from their bondage. The planter emancipated Fred from slavery long before the law was written.

embark for (some place)	to leave for some place, usually in a ship or an airplane	We are embarking for Denver tomorrow morning. Maria is embarking for Honolulu in just a few minutes.

embark on	to start a project or venture	Piere EMBARKED ON an MBA at Instead last autumn.
embark on something	to begin a journey by boarding a ship, airplane, etc.	They embarked on their journey from San Juan.
embark on something	to begin a project; to begin any process	When will you embark on your new project?

embark upon	to start a project or venture	Fernando has just EMBARKED UPON a new professional challenge.
embark upon	to start, commence	As soon as he finished his contract, he embarked upon a new project.


embarrass somebody about something/somebody	to make someone feel bad or ashamed about someone or something	Please don't embarrass me by mentioning my mistake again. There is no need to embarrass her about her unfortunate sister.

embarrass somebody into doing something	to shame someone into doing something	They tried to embarrass me into doing it, but I resisted. Juan tried to embarrass Fred into going home early.

embarrass somebody with something	to use something to make someone feel bad or ashamed	Please don't embarrass me with that old story again. Maria embarrassed Henry with a reminder of what had happened.

embed something in something	to stick something into something	The mugger only embedded his knife in the cloth of the victim's coat. A ring was embedded in the bread dough by accident.
embed something/somebody in something	to insert someone or something in something	The team of oxen embedded their legs in the muddy river bottom. Laura embedded sequins in the candles and turned them into clever gifts.

embellish something with something	to add to a story with detail	The storyteller embellished the tale with the names of people in the audience. I always try to embellish my tales with a little local color.
embellish something with something	to add untrue things to a story	He tends to embellish the truth with a few imaginative details. There is no need to embellish this story with anything untrue.
embellish something with something	to ornament something with something	He embellished the painting with too many little decorations. The room has been embellished with too many baroque sconces.

embezzle something from something/somebody	to steal something from someone or a group	They caught her embezzling funds from the bank. Jerry's business partner embezzled a large sum from their checking account.

emblazon something on(to) something	to decorate something with something	The workers emblazoned wild decorations on the door. They emblazoned their name on the side of the building.
emblazon something on(to) something	to put some writing or symbols that proclaim something onto something	The knight emblazoned his crest onto his shield. The craftsman emblazoned the knight's crest on his shield.

emblazon something with something	to decorate something with writing or symbols	They emblazoned the wall with pictures of past triumphs. His shield was emblazoned with the family crest.

embody something in something	to actualize something in something; to make something represent something else in actuality	I tried to embody both good and evil in my painting. A strong sense of morality is embodied in her writing.

embroil somebody in something	to entangle someone in something; to get someone involved in something	Please do not embroil me in your squabbles. I wish I could keep from embroiling myself in this kind of mess.

emerge (from something) (as something)	to come out of something as something	The caterpillar would emerge as a butterfly in a short time. A new man emerged from prison.
emerge from

employ somebody as something	to pay someone to work in some capacity	I employed Fred as a personal secretary for about three months. Can you employ me as a stock clerk?

employ somebody for something	to hire someone for a particular purpose	I employ him for special chores around the factory. Kelly employed Walter for emergency repairs on the night shift.

employ somebody in something	to pay someone to work in a particular type of work	I employ Tom in machine maintenance. Laura is employed in accounting.

empower somebody to do something	to authorize someone to do something; to grant someone the power to do something	I will empower you to collect the dues of the members. The prime minister empowered a special office to oversee tax collection.

empty into something	[for a river, stream, or man-made conduit] to pour its contents into something	The Amazon River empties into the Atlantic Ocean. The drainage pipe empties into the river.
empty something into something	to pour something into something else	Now, empty the can of soup into the pan. Open the can and empty in the contents.

empty out	to empty something completely	I must EMPTY OUT the rubbish before I leave for work.
empty out	to remove some things or everything from a container	I EMPTIED some of the coffee OUT so I could pour more milk in.
empty somebody out	to cause someone to empty the bowels, stomach, or bladder	This medication will empty you out. This stuff could empty out an army! He fasted for two days to empty himself out.
empty something out	to remove or pour all of the contents from something	Please empty this drawer out and clean it. She emptied out the aquarium and cleaned it well.

enable somebody to do something	to make it possible for someone to do something	This money will enable me to open my own business. My uncle enabled me to open my own candy shop.

encase something/somebody in something	to contain someone or something in something	We encased her broken leg in a splint and raced to the hospital. Sammy encased the butterfly in a glass display box.

enchant somebody with something	to bewitch someone or something with a magic spell	The children were enchanted with a spell that made them forget.
enchant somebody with something	to fascinate someone with some object	She enchanted the children with the little drawings she made of them. We were enchanted with her drawings.

enclose something/somebody (with)in something	to contain someone, something, or some space inside of something	The police enclosed the people in a safe area while the accident was being cleaned up. The farmer enclosed the pig within a new pen.

encompass something/somebody (with)in something	to surround or include someone or something within the domain or span of something	We encompassed the group within our administrative area. They could not encompass our neighborhood in the new school district.

encourage somebody in something	to give support to someone about something in particular	We want to encourage her in her musical career. Ted encouraged me in my efforts to become a baseball player.

encourage somebody to do something	to inspire or stimulate someone to do something; to give someone the courage to do something	We encouraged her to develop her musical talents. He encouraged himself to study hard so he could make it into medical school.

encroach (up)on something/somebody	to infringe or trespass on someone or something; to move into the space belonging to someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	I did not mean to encroach upon your property. I need lots of space. Don't encroach on me.

encumber something/somebody with something/somebody	to burden someone or something with someone or something	Please do not try to encumber me with your debts. She encumbered the marriage with a number of children from a previous marriage. She encumbered herself with the weight of both children and her purse.

end in	to finish in a certain way/result in	It will END IN tears. Their marriage ended in divorce.

end up	to become or do something unplanned	We couldn't get tickets for Egypt so we ENDED UP going to Turkey instead.
end up	to eventually reach/do/decide	We ended up renting a movie instead of going to the theatre. How will this end up?
end up	to finally reach a state, place or action	If he continues his misconduct, he'll end up in prison.
end up	to finish up; to finally be/do something	We wanted to go to the mountains, but we ended up going to the beach instead.
end up with	to get as a result of something	He tried hard but ENDED UP WITH a poor grade.

endear somebody to something/somebody	to cause someone to be cherished by someone else or a group	Her good humor endears her to all of us. Sally endears herself to everyone because she is so funny. She failed to endear herself to her husband's parents.

endeavor to do something	to try to do something	Whenever I endeavor to console her, she breaks down again. Maria endeavored to comfort Henry.

endowed with something	to born with a particular quality	He was endowed with an exceedingly quick mind.
endowed with something	to give something to someone or something	We endowed her with the courage she needed to do the job. Gerald endowed the proceedings with a distinctive atmosphere.
endowed with something	to provide someone or something with a large sum of money that will provide income	I will endow my alma mater with some of my fortune. The family endowed a chair in the humanities at the university.

enfold somebody in something	to wrap or contain someone in something	He enfolded the tiny baby in a soft blanket. Sarah enfolded herself in the silk sheets and giggled with glee.

enforce something on somebody	to make a law effective with regard to someone	I can't enforce this on her if I don't enforce it on you. This law can't be enforced on anyone.

engage in !
engage something/somebody in something	to draw someone or something into something	The enemy sought to engage our troops in battle but failed. I tried to engage Gerald in conversation.
engage something/somebody in something	to make someone or a group busy doing something	She knew how to engage the boys in useful activity. The den mother engaged the scouts in a woodworking project.

engage somebody as something	to hire someone to serve as something	Yes, I engaged her as a secretary just last month. Will you engage me as a general troubleshooter?

engage somebody to somebody	to betroth someone to someone	Her parents engaged her to the man she ended up marrying. She engaged herself to some guy she met at a singles bar.

engorge (itself) on something/somebody	[for an animal] to drink its fill of blood	The vampire bat engorged itself on a number of creatures last night. Mosquitoes engorge on human victims. The mosquitoes engorged themselves with my blood all night long.

engrave something (up)on something	to cut letters or a design into the surface of something; to engrave something on(to) something	Todd engraved his initials into the bark of the tree. Their names were engraved onto each of their wedding rings. He asked them to engrave his initials upon the back of his watch. He engraved his name on the desktop.
engrave something (up)on something	to imprint something firmly on someone's mind	I engraved the combination to the safe upon my brain. The teacher engraved the definition of a noun into my memory.
engrave something on(to) something	to cut symbols into the surface of something	She engraved her initials onto the side of the tree. Ted engraved her name on the bracelet.

engrave something into something	to cut symbols into something	She engraves a lovely design into the soap that she puts out for guests. Todd engraved his initials into the bark of the tree.

engrave something with something	to carve on something, using some tool or device	The worker engraved the watch with a sharp stylus. Can I engrave this bracelet with this tool? Is it sharp enough?
engrave something with something	to carve something, such as letters, into something	He engraved the soft pewter with an old motto. Can you engrave my watch with a date?

engross somebody in something	to occupy someone's time or thinking with something	You can't expect me to engross Tom in my work. We were all engrossed in what the speaker had to say.

engulf something/somebody in something	[for the fog, a flood, or waves] to swallow up someone or something	The fog engulfed the small town in heavy mist. The waves engulfed the small boat in thousands of gallons of water.

enjoin somebody to do something	to order someone to do something	We sought to enjoin her to remain in office. Sally wants to enjoin the committee to finish its work on time.

enjoin something/somebody from something	[for a court] to order someone or something not to do something	The judge enjoined her from further action in this matter. The company was enjoined from further dumping of waste.

enlist (oneself) for something	to sign up for something; to enroll for something	Sam wouldn't enlist for service. Todd enlisted himself for the army last week.
enlist somebody for something	to enroll someone for something; to seek help for something from someone	I enlisted all of them for the understudy parts. Can I enlist you for the committee?

enlist somebody in something	to recruit someone into something; to recruit someone into the armed services	They tried to enlist me in the army, but I decided against it. David enlisted his brother in an organization that gave assistance to peasants in South America.

enlist(oneself) in something	to join something; to join the armed services	She decided not to enlist herself in the air force. Bill enlisted in the army.

enmesh something/somebody in something	to entangle someone or a group in something	Don't enmesh yourself in these ropes and chains. I didn't mean to enmesh you in this net. I should have kept it out of the way. Jane enmeshed herself in the net that had been set out to dry.
enmesh something/somebody in something	to get someone or a group involved in some problem	They enmeshed us in their problems even though we tried to avoid it. We enmeshed the entire committee in the lawsuit. Why do I always enmesh myself in someone else's business?

enrich something/somebody with something	to improve or enhance someone or something with something	You might want to enrich this soup with a little milk or cream. The teacher enriched her students with field trips and films.

ensconce oneself in something	to establish oneself in something; to settle oneself into something; to place oneself firmly into something	He ensconced himself in the most comfortable chair. Sally ensconced herself in the huge throne and pretended she was a queen.

enshrine somebody in !
enshrine something in something	to honor someone or something by placement in a shrine	Bill enshrined his grandfather's watch in a glass dome.

ensnare something/somebody in something	to capture someone or something in something	Dave ensnared the rabbit in his trap. Henry ensnared himself in the trap they had laid for deer.
ensnare something/somebody in something	to catch or "trap" someone in an act or pattern of deception	She sought to ensnare him in his own framework of lies. He ensnared himself in his many lies.

ensue from something	to result from someone or something	What ensued from the change in policy was not anticipated at all. A very serious problem ensued from the events of the day.

entangle something/somebody in something	and entangle an animal in something	to catch or tangle up someone, a group, or an animal in something. Careful! Don't entangle your foot in the anchor chain. Somehow I entangled the dog in the fishing net.
entangle something/somebody in something	to get someone or a group involved in something	She was trying to entangle us in her latest cause. They entangled us in their lawsuit.

entangle something/somebody with something	to get someone or something tangled up with something	He sought to entangle the pursuing mugger with a mass of ropes and boards. Sam entangled the rabid dog with a net and got away. He entangled himself with the ropes on the deck.

enter (up)on something	to begin something	Todd entered upon a new phase of his life. He entered on the management of a new project.
enter (up)on something	to come in at a particular point as marked by something	We entered the theater upon the most delicate point of the story. Weenteredon thetail end of a live scene.

enter for	to join or enter a competition	They ENTERED FOR the national championship but weren't good enough.

enter in something	to enroll as a participant in something, such as a contest, competition, etc.	She was not ready to enter in the competition. I can't enter in that contest. I'm not prepared.
enter something/somebody in(to) something	to enroll someone or something in something; to make someone or something a competitor in something	I will enter you into the contest whether you like it or not. The trainer entered his fastest horse in the race.

enter into	to become involved in or accept	They ENTERED INTO an agreement with their rivals.
enter into	to accept, become legaly committed to (an agreement, contract, etc.)	The two parties entered into an agreement last week.
enter into something	to get into something	She entered into the house and immediately went to work. As the people entered into the cathedral, they became quiet.
enter into something	to join in something; to participate in something	I couldn't get him to enter into the spirit of the party. She just loves to enter into things and have a good time with people.

enter/get into !

entertain somebody with something	to provide something for amusement or refreshment to someone	Will you try to entertain the children with a game or two, please? She entertained herself with the puzzle.

enthrall somebody with something	to charm or captivate someone with something	They enthralled us with the beauty of their singing. The children enthralled us with their rustic dances.

entitle somebody to do something	[for something] to qualify someone to do something	This ticket entitles you to go in and take a seat. Does this paper entitle me to get a discount?

entreat somebody to do something	to beg someone to do something	They entreated us to come back as soon as we could. I entreat you to think it over again.

entrust somebody with something/somebody	to trust someone to provide protection and care for someone or something	Can I entrust you with Johnny while I go in and vote? I entrusted Fred with my share of the money until I returned. I would not even entrust myself with the care of this priceless vase!

entrust something/somebody to somebody	to place someone or something into the protection of someone	Can I entrust Johnny to you while I shop? I entrusted my share of the money to Fred until I returned to town.

entwine around something/somebody	to weave or wind around someone or something	The snake entwined around the limb of the tree. The huge python entwined around the horrified farmer.
entwine something around something/somebody	to weave or wind something around someone or something	They entwined their arms around each other. Jack entwined the garland of flowers around Jill.

enunciate something to somebody	to say something to someone very clearly and distinctly	Now, enunciate it to everyone, because they probably did not understand you the first time. I will enunciate it to you one more time, slowly.

envelop something/somebody in something/somebody	to wrap someone or something in someone or something	The fog enveloped us in its grasp. Mountains of fog rolled in and enveloped the house in dense vapor.

envisage something/somebody as something/somebody	to imagine or visualize someone or something as someone or something	I envisaged you as a more graceful person than you are. We envisaged the living room as sort of a gathering place for the entire family.

envision somebody as somebody else	to imagine or fantasize someone as someone else; to imagine or fantasize something as something else	I envision her as the next company president. We envisioned this as larger than it turned out to be.

equal something/somebody in something	to be even or identical with someone or something in something	John equals Bill in strength and size, I think. This cake equals that one in texture but not in richness.

equal to	(someone or something) able to handle or deal with someone or something	I'm afraid that I'm not equal to Mrs. Smith's problem right now. Please ask her to come back later. That's a very difficult task, but I'm sure Bill is equal to it.
equal to	someone as good or as accomplished as someone else	I certainly feel equal to Randy. He's nothing special. I don't think that Bill feels equal to Bob, even though they are twins.

equate something/somebody with something/somebody	to compare people and things, in any combination	I tend to equate Tom with trouble. I equate the Johnsons with a long boring evening.

equip something with something	to add a piece of equipment to something	We will equip our truck with a plow blade and plow snow this winter. This car is equipped with air-conditioning.

erase something from something	to delete or wipe something from something	Please erase the writing from the blackboard. I will erase the incorrectly spelled word from my paper.
erase something from something	to remove something from something	Erase that smile from your face! I hope you will erase that thought from your mind.

err on !

erupt from something	to burst out of something or some place	A billow of smoke erupted from the chimney. A mass of ashes and gasses erupted from the volcano.

erupt into something	[for something] to become a serious problem suddenly	The argument erupted into a terrible fight. They were afraid the fight would erupt into a riot.

escalate into something	to intensify into something; to increase gradually into something	This argument is going to escalate into something serious very soon. These cases of the flu could escalate into a real epidemic.
escalate something into something	to cause something to intensify	He escalated the argument into a vicious fight. The dictator tried to escalate the disagreement into a cause for war.

escape (from something/somebody) (to some place)	to get away from someone, something, or some place to another place	Max escaped from prison to a hideout in Alabama. He escaped to Alabama from one of the worst-run prisons in the land.
escape from
escape from (somewhere)
escape from something/somebody

escort something/somebody from something	to accompany or lead someone or something away from something or some place	A police officer escorted them from the auditorium. A band of honorary pallbearers escorted the coffin from the chapel.

escort something/somebody to something	to accompany or lead someone or something to something or some place	We escorted the women to their seats. Claude escorted Harry to the exit and bade him farewell.

establish something/somebody as something/somebody	to validate or confirm someone or something as someone or something	As soon as we establish her as a viable candidate, we will launch the publicity campaign. She established herself as an authority on rare books.

establish something/somebody in something	to set someone or something up in something or some place; to install someone or something in something or some place	We established a restaurant in the middle of downtown. My uncle established me in the candy business.

etch something in(to) something	to erode a design or message into something, usually with acid	They etched their family crest into their good crystal. He etched in his initials.

evacuate somebody (from something) (to something)	to remove someone from something or some place to another thing or place, as in an emergency	They had to evacuate everyone from the subway station to a nearby building. The rescuers evacuated the people from the flames.

evaluate somebody as something	to judge someone's performance as something	I will have to evaluate you as a new student. We must evaluate ourselves as teachers and leaders.

even out	to become level or regular	The road was evened out to make it safer. The surface of the road was evened out.
even out	to eliminate differences of opinion	After a long discussion they managed to even out their differences.
even something out	to make something even or level	Please even the gravel out. They evened out the surface of the road.

even something up	to make something even, square, level, equal, balanced, etc.	I'll even the table up. See if you can even up the legs of this table. It wobbles.

exact something from somebody	to demand something from someone; to take something from someone	The bill collector sought to exact payment from them for a debt that had been paid off long ago. You cannot exact a single cent from me.

examine somebody in something	to give someone an examination in a particular subject or covering certain material	The committee examined her in her knowledge of history. I was examined in math.

examine something/somebody for something	to inspect someone or something for the presence of something	I examined the child for signs of abuse. You had better examine this dog for ticks. Don't forget to examine yourself for ticks after you return from the hike.

exceed something/somebody by something	to surpass someone or something by some amount	Wally exceeded his quota by two hundred. He exceeded Larry by a large amount.

exceed something/somebody in something	to surpass someone or something in something	Tom exceeds Walter in athletic ability. Ralph exceeded the Rock of Gibraltar in hardheadedness.

excel at something	to do something in a superior fashion	She really excels at running. Wally does not excel at anything. Frank always hoped he would excel in math.

excel in

except for !

exchange something for something	to trade something for something else	I will exchange this one for a larger size. Can this be exchanged for something more suitable?

exchange something with somebody	to trade something with someone	I exchange Christmas presents with him, but I never see him otherwise. Let's exchange coats with each other.

excite somebody about something	to stimulate someone about something	I thought our vacation stories would excite her about going, but they did not. She was excited about the trip to Moscow.

excite something in somebody	to arouse something in someone; to arouse someone with something	The horror movie excited a lot of fear in Mike. The smell of jasmine in the warm air excited a romantic streak in me.

excited about something/somebody

exclude something from something

excuse (somebody) for ([doing] something)
excuse for
excuse somebody for something	to pardon someone for something or for (doing) something	She excused him for being rude. Please excuse me for this mess. I've not been able to clean the house. I can't excuse myself for not doing it.

excuse somebody from something	to permit a person not to do something; to exempt someone from something	Please excuse me from attending the meeting. I must excuse myself from the discussion.

exemplify something by something	to use something to explain or illustrate something	He exemplifies wisdom by his decisions. Roger exemplifies virtue by the way he treats his employees.

exempt somebody from something	to release someone from the obligation to do something; to allow a person not to be affected by a rule or law	I cannot exempt anyone from this rule. The members of Congress exempted themselves from the wage freeze.

exercise (somebody or an animal) in	something to give someone or an animal practice in doing something; to drill someone or an animal at something	Please exercise the dog in obedience routines. I hope you will exercise me in my Spanish irregular verbs.

exercise power over	someone or something and exercise control over someone or something; exercise influence over someone or something to have someone or something under one's control or influence	The dictator exercised power over the island for many years. See if you can exercise some control over your appetite. I wish I could exercise some influence over the committee.

exercised about something	upset about something	Mary: You lost a hundred dollars playing poker!? Bill: Now don't get exercised about it. I can't tell Ma I'm failing English class. She gets exercised about every dumb thing I do.

exhort somebody to do something	to urge or pressure someone to do something	She exhorted us to do better, but we only did worse. The boss exhorted the workers to increase productivity.

exorcise something out of somebody	to remove or cast out evil from someone	We saw a movie about a priest who exorcised a demon out of a young girl.

expand (up)on something	to add detail to a report about something; to say more about something	Would you please expand upon that last remark? Would you care to enlarge upon your remarks?

expand into something	to grow into something; to enlarge into something	The little problem expanded into a big one in no time at all. In no time at all, the vegetable garden had expanded into a small farm.
expand something into something	to enlarge something into something; to make something grow into something	She expanded her business into a national company. I would like to build on an addition to expand this room into a more usable space.

expatiate on something/somebody	to say or write many words about someone or something	She expatiated endlessly on the evils of tobacco. I have heard you expatiate on Harry quite enough, thank you.

expect something from something/somebody	and expect something (out) of someone or something to anticipate a certain kind of behavior from someone or something	We expected better from you. I'm very disappointed in your behavior. We really expected better behavior of you.
expect something from something/somebody	and expect something (out) of someone or something to demand something from someone or something	I expect more effort from you. Get to work.
expect something from something/somebody	to anticipate receiving something from someone or a group	I expect a letter from you at least once a week while you are gone. We expect at least a postcard out of you.

expect something/somebody for something	to anticipate someone or a group to attend something	I expect you for dinner on Thursday. We expected all of the board of directors for the meeting.

expel somebody from something	to force someone to leave something or some place; to eject someone from something or some place	The two men expelled the fighters from the tavern. Ken was expelled from school for disciplinary reasons.
expel something from something	to force or eject something out of something	The machine expelled cup after cup from its opening. The volcano expelled huge globs of molten lava.

expend something for something	to pay a certain amount for something	I expended an enormous amount for skin creams. How much money did you expend for this gaudy tie?

expend something in something	to use or consume something in some activity	You expend too much energy in talking. Harry expended a lot of time in the preparation of his speech.

expend something on something/somebody	to use something on someone or something	Don't expend too much energy on him. He isn't worth it. There is no point in expending any more money on this car.

experiment (up)on something/somebody	to use someone or something as the subject of an experiment (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Do you think we should experiment upon people? The researchers were experimenting on a new drug that might cure rabies.
experiment on

experiment in something	to conduct research or experiments about something	The research group is experimenting in the field of biomechanics. We want to experiment in thermodynamics.

experiment with something/somebody	to try different experiments on someone or something; to use different people or things as key variables in an experiment	They are supposed to be experimenting with new drugs. We no longer experiment with animals.

explain (topic) to (somebody)
explain something to somebody	SheВ explainedВ her ideasВ aboutВ the projectВ toВ the teacher.
explain something to somebody
explain something/somebody to somebody	to give information or instruction about someone or something to someone	Please explain it to me. Can you explain Andrew to me?

explain away	To explain/ make excuses for something so that it seems less important	The CEO tried to explain away the company's recent poor performance.
explain away something	to explain something so that it is no longer a problem	You can try to explain it away if you want, but that won't solve the problem. You can't just explain away all your problems.
explain away something	to invent reasons why something is unimportant You will find it hard to explain away all these mistakes	Rather than face the truth, we try to explain it away.

export something to something/somebody	to sell something abroad to someone or some country	The company exported alcohol to Brazil. We only export books to our agents abroad.

expose something (or oneself) to something/somebody	to disclose someone's or something's secrets to someone or a group	He exposed his inner thoughts to everyone there. She refused to expose herself to the ears of the curious and ceased talking. He exposed himself to the public when he revealed his involvement in the arms sale.
expose something/somebody to something/somebody	to show someone or something to someone or something	You should not expose the children to violent movies at their age. Do not expose the film to the light.

expostulate about something/somebody	to comment or argue intensely about someone or something	He always seems to be expostulating on something. Why can't he simply say "Yes" or "No"? Sam is expostulating on Bill's many shortcomings again.

express (oneself) to somebody on something	to say what one thinks about something	I will express myself to Karen on that matter at another time. She expressed herself on Karen to the entire group.

expunge something from something	to erase something from something	The judge ordered the clerk to expunge the comment from the record. Please expunge the lawyer's remark from the transcript.

expurgate something from something	to cleanse something by removing something (Often refers to editing objectionable material from written or broadcast material)	They expurgated the most graphic passages from the novel. We will expurgate the offensive matter from the article.

extend (from something) (to something)	to spread from one point to another point	The cloud of smoke extended from one end of town to the other. It extended to the end of the road from our front gate.

extend across something	to spread across something	The shadows extended across the whole land. The fog extended across the low-lying land.

extend over something/somebody	to spread over someone or something	The smoke extended over Tom and his friends, who were having a picnic. The cloud extended over the entire valley.

extend something to something	to lengthen something to reach something	We extended the antenna to its full length. Extend your arm to the wall and see how straight you can make it.
extend something to something	to push a stated deadline further into the future	I will extend the deadline to Friday. We cannot extend the due date to next month.
extend to something/somebody	to reach all the way to someone or something	This policy extends to you also. The road extends to Los Angeles.

extol something/somebody as something	to praise someone or something as something	We extolled her as a heroine. The salesman extolled the medicine as a cure-all.

extort something from something/somebody	to steal something from someone by coercion; to force someone to give something by making threats	The crook was trying to extort a lot of money from the widow by selling her a worthless insurance policy. The authorities caught the accounting firm trying to extort a great deal of money from the bank.

extract something from something/somebody	to remove something from someone or something; to make someone or a group give something	We extracted the juice from the oranges. The police questioning Maggie extracted the truth from her.

extrapolate something from something	to reason out the answer from the known facts	I cannot extrapolate what he meant from these notes. Can you extrapolate the annual total from the company's sales so far this year?

extricate something/somebody from something/somebody	to disentangle someone or something from someone or something; to free someone or something from someone or something	I tried to extricate myself from her, but she made it hard for me to get away politely. I managed to extricate the ring from the vacuum cleaner bag.

exult at something	to rejoice because of something; to rejoice about something	We exulted at the end of the hostilities. The citizens exulted over the downfall of the dictator.

exult in something	to take great pleasure in something; to enjoy something immensely	I exult in the beauty of a spring day. We exulted in the glory of summer.

eye of !

eye up	look carefully at someone	The guy EYED the other man UP because he was behaving suspiciously.

eyeball to !


face off	to confront	The company FACED OFF the competition.
face off	to go head to head; to engage in a game, competition, etc.	The two teams will face off again next week.

face up to	to accept an unpleasant truth	Many people find it hard to FACE UP TO the fact that they are getting old. You have to face up to challenges.
face up to	to accept responsibility for	In order to be a responsible person, you have to face up to what you did.

face with

fade away	to diminish into something	The light faded away into nothing. The sound of the drums faded away into the distance.

fade back (into something)	to move back into a particular area	He faded back to throw a pass. Quickly and unnoticed, he faded back.

fade down	[for sound] to diminish	The roar of the train faded down as it passed and fled into the night. As the thunder faded down, the sun began to break through the clouds.
fade something down	to turn down a sound (Broadcasting)	The radio engineer faded the music down and the announcer's voice began. She faded down the music.

fade from something	[for something] to leave something gradually, such as one's consciousness, memory, view, etc. (See also fade from view)	The image faded from her memory at last.

fade into something	to diminish or change into something	The light of dusk faded into blackness. In the corner of the painting, the deep reds faded into lavender.

fade something in	to bring a picture, sound, or both into prominence (Broadcasting)	The technician faded the picture in and the program began. Fade in the picture a little faster next time.

fade something out	to diminish something altogether (Broadcasting)	At the end, you should fade the music out completely. Fade out the music earlier.

fade something up	to increase the sound gradually (Broadcasting)	The director faded the music up and then down again before the announcer spoke. Fade up the music when the announcer stops talking.

fade/pale into !

faff about	to behave indecisively	He told her to stop FAFFING ABOUT and make her mind up.

faff around	to behave indecisively	She told him to stop FAFFING AROUND and make his mind up.

fail in (something)	to have not earned passing or satisfactory grades in some school subject	George is failing in geometry. I hope I do not fail in math.

fail somebody on something	to give someone an unsatisfactory grade on an assignment or test	She failed us all on the math assignment. The teacher failed half the class on the assignment.

faint away !

faint from something	to faint because of something	I nearly fainted from fear! Three people along the parade route fainted from the heat.

fake off	to waste time; to goof off	Hey, you guys, quit faking off! All you clowns do is fake off. Now, get busy!

fake somebody out	to deceive someone; to fool someone	You really faked me out. I never would have guessed it was you. The student tried to fake out the teacher.
fake somebody out of something	to get something from someone by deception	He faked Tom out of his place in line. She faked me out of a lot of money.

fall (a)foul of something/somebody	to get into a situation where one is opposed to someone or something; to get into trouble with someone or something	Dan fell afoul of the law at an early age. I hope that you will avoid falling afoul of the district manager. She can be a formidable enemy. I hope I don't run afoul of your sister. She doesn't like me.

fall about	to laugh a lot	We FELL ABOUT when we heard what she'd done.

fall apart	to become emotionally disturbed and unable to behave normally	He FELL APART when they sacked him. The whole thing falls apart.
fall apart	to break into pieces; to fall into pieces	The box FELL APART when I picked it up. My new dress fell apart in the washing machine.

fall back	to retreat	The army FELL BACK after losing the battle.
fall back on	to be able to use in an emergency	It was good to have some money in the bank to FALL BACK ON when I lost my job.
fall back on; rely on	to have as a backup; To have in case of an emergency	I always have my translating skills to fall back on if my acting career doesn't pan out. I had to fall back on my savings.

fall behind	to make less progress	I was ill for a week and FELL BEHIND with my work.
fall behind (get behind)	to fail to keep up pace (with someone/something)	The other runners fell behind. He's falling behind with his car payments.

fall down	to fall on the ground	I slipped on the ice and FELL DOWN. The picture that you hung up last night fell down this morning.
fall down	to have a weak point	The argument FALLS DOWN when you look at how much it'll cost.

fall flat	if an attempt to influence people's behaviour or opinions falls flat, it fails The advertising campaign which had worked so well in the US fell flat in China	The statement that pregnancy is not an illness falls flat with many morning sickness sufferers.
fall flat	if an entertainment or a joke falls flat, people do not enjoy it and do not think it is funny Several attempts at humour during his speech fell flat.

fall for	to be attracted to somebody, fall in love	He FELL FOR her the moment their eyes met.
fall for	to believe a lie or a piece of deception	He FELL FOR my story and allowed me yet another extension for the submission of my thesis.
fall for	to believe something that isn't true	I can't believe you fell for that story! It's obviously a lie!
fall for	to fall in love with; to be in love with; be deceived by	He fell for her.

fall foul of somebody	to upset someone, so that they do not like you and try to harm you	Officials who fall foul of the mayor find themselves exiled to the most boring departments.
fall foul of something	to break a law or a rule, and often be punished	If their market share grows too large, they will fall foul of anti-monopoly laws.

fall from !
fall in	to collapse	The ceiling FELL IN hurting a lot of people.
fall in with	to meet by chance; coincide with

fall into	to start doing something unplanned	I just FELL INTO my job when an opportunity came up.

fall off	to decrease; drop from	The membership FELL OFF dramatically when the chairperson resigned. Prices have fallen off in the past couple of months.

fall on !

fall out	(of hair, teeth) to become loose and unattached	He's started getting worried about baldness because his hair is FALLING OUT rather quickly. His hair started to fall out when he was only 35.
fall out	to argue and be on bad terms with someone	They FELL OUT over the decision and hardly speak to each other any more.
fall out	to quarrel
fall out	to separate from an interior	The money must have fallen out of my pocket.
fall out	to argue, fight to the	They fell out over the administration's handling of the war.
fall out of favor (with somebody)	to lose someone's approval or acceptance	This style of house has fallen out of favor with most people lately. Saving money has lost favor with most people.
fall out with	to quarrel with

fall over	to fall on the ground	I slipped on the ice and FELL OVER.
fall over backwards (to do something)	to do everything possible to please someone	The taxi driver fell over backwards to be helpful. The teacher bent over backwards to help the students understand. You don't have to lean over backwards to get me to help. Just ask.

fall of !

fall through	to be unsuccessful	The plans FELL THROUGH when planning permission was refused.
fall through	to fail, miscarry/does not happen	Our planned boat trip fell through because of the storm.
fall through	to not happen	Our plan to go to Europe last year fell through because we didn't have enough money. I hope the house signing doesn't fall through.

fall to	to start an activity eagerly

fall under	to become controlled	At first he was independent, but then he FELL UNDER their influence.

falter in something	to fail in doing something; to exhibit a lack of something, such as faith, loyalty, perseverance, etc.	He did not falter in his effort to see the project through to the end. I promised not to falter in my loyalty.

familiar with something/somebody

fan out	to spread out over a wide area	The police fanned out across the park. The searchers fanned out, looking for the child lost in the woods. Let's fan out and search a wider area.
fan out (from some place)	to spread outward from a particular area	The paths seem to fan out from the wide trail that starts at the house. The trails fanned out and soon we were all separated.
fan something out	to spread something out so that all parts can be seen better (As one opens a wood and paper fan)	Todd fanned the cards out so we could see which ones he held. He fanned out the cards.

fan of !

fancy somebody as something/somebody	to imagine that someone were someone else or some particular type of person	Can you fancy her as a zookeeper? I can fancy him as a tall, dark stranger. I really don't fancy myself as a farmer.

farm out	to give or contract work to someone else	The company wants to FARM OUT their maintenance.
farm out somebody (to somebody)	to give someone to someone else who will take care of them	She farmed out her children to her brother for two weeks.
farm out something (to somebody)	to give work or responsibilities to other people	Magazines often farm out articles to freelance writers. If you can't finish the reports by next week, you should farm them out.
farm somebody out	to send a child away to be cared for by someone; to send a child to boarding school	We farmed the kids out to my sister for the summer. We farmed out the kids.
farm somebody out	[for someone in control] to send someone to work for someone else	I have farmed my electrician out for a week, so your work will have to wait. We farmed out the office staff.
farm something out	to deplete the fertility of land by farming too intensely	They farmed their land out through careless land management. They farmed out their land.
farm something out	to send work to someone to be done away from one's normal place of business; to subcontract work	We farmed the assembly work out. We always farm out the actual final assembly of the finished units.

fart about	to waste time doing silly things	The manager was angry because the staffs were FARTING ABOUT.

fart around	to waste time doing pointless things	We were really bored in the lecture so we started FARTING AROUND.

fashion something into something	to make, form, or convert something into something else	He fashioned the newspaper into a temporary rain hat. Sarah fashioned the clay into a little bowl.

fashion something on something	to model something on something else; to pattern something after something else	She fashioned her dress on something she had seen in a history book. Donna fashioned the plan on the one Robert had used.

fashion something out of something	to make something from something; to convert something into something else	He tried to fashion a dog out of balloons. Elaine was expert at fashioning a bow out of chocolate.

fast-talk somebody into something	to use deceitful talk to get someone to do something	You can't fast-talk me into giving you money. How dumb do you think I am? Max tried to fast-talk Lefty into robbing a bank with him.

fast-talk somebody out of something	to use deceitful talk to get someone not to do something or to give something up	Don't try to fast-talk me out of my share.

fasten (up)on something/somebody	to fix one's attention on someone or something	He fastened upon the picture for a brief moment and then turned away. The baby fastened on the television screen and watched it for many minutes.
fasten (up)on something/somebody	to take firm hold of someone or something	She fastened upon me and would not let me go until she finished speaking. I don't like people who fasten on me and ask a lot of questions.

fasten down	to tie something so that it doesn't move	We FASTENED it DOWN to keep the wind from blowing it away.
fasten something down (to something)	to attach something down to something else	Fasten this board down to the top of the workbench. Please fasten down the board.

fasten onto	to follow someone closely, normally when they don't want your company	He FASTENED ONTO the minister on his visit and asked him repeatedly about the scandal.

fasten on (onto)	to give attention to something that confirms your beliefs	They FASTEN ONTO any figures that they think can support their case. They have FASTENED ON the speech as a source of inspiration.

fasten something up	to close something up, using buttons, a zipper, snaps, hooks, a clasp, or other things meant to hold something closed	Please fasten this up for me. I can't reach the zipper. Please fasten up my buttons in back.
fasten up	to close, attach	FASTEN UP your seatbelts.

fasten something/somebody (on)to something/somebody	to attach people or things together	He fastened himself onto the mast of the boat with a length of rope. I fastened a note onto Jimmy, so his kindergarten teacher would read it and remind him to wear his gloves home.

father something on somebody	to regard someone as the author or originator of something	Do not attempt to father that stupid idea on me! We fathered the whole plan on the president. And we learned later she had nothing to do with it.

fathom out	to understand something	I couldn't FATHOM OUT what she wanted from me.

fatten (somebody or an animal) up (with something)	to use something to make someone or an animal fat	We will fatten the calf up with corn. I don't know why they keep fattening up their children with so much food.
fatten up	to give an animal a lot to eat to make it fat	They FATTEN the cows UP before slaughtering them.
fatten up	to become prosperous because of something	The corporations fattened up on easy profits and low taxes. The directors of the company fattened up even during the recession when the workers were laid off.
fatten up	to get fat by eating something	The cattle fattened up on the succulent grass. The bears have to fatten up on food before they hibernate for the winter.

fault somebody (for something)	to blame or criticize someone for something	I can't fault you for that. I would have done the same thing. He tended to fault himself for the failure of the project.

favor something/somebody with something	to provide someone or something with something beneficial or special	Mary favored us with a song. Nature favored Bill with curly hair.

fawn (all) over somebody	to flatter someone or attend to someone excessively; to curry favor with someone	Please stop fawning all over the guests. You are embarrassing me. She always fawns over us when we visit.
fawn over	to praise someone in an excessive way to get their favour or something from them	She FAWNED OVER the inspectors in the hope that they would give her a good grade.

fawn (up)on somebody	to praise and flatter someone	Aunt Mabel fawned on the new baby till the poor child was rescued by her mother. I hate the way our aunts fawn on us at family gatherings.
fawn on	to praise someone in an excessive way to get their favour or something from them	He's always FAWNING ON his boss to try to get promoted.

fear for something/somebody	to be afraid for the safety of someone or something; to worry about someone or something	I fear for Tom. He has gone to a very dangerous place. I don't want to go down that rocky trail. I fear for my car.

feast (up)on something	to eat a great deal of something; to eat a feast built around something in particular	We will feast upon turkey for weeks. We feasted on the fish Harry had caught.
feast on !

feather in !

feature somebody as something	to give special prominence to someone in a particular part in a play, film, opera, etc.	They featured Laura as the lead singer in the group. The director refused to feature Roger as a lead.
feature somebody as something	to imagine someone to be something or a particular type of person	I really can't feature you as a ship's captain. Alice had always featured Fred as a fairly even-tempered person.

feature somebody in something	to imagine someone being in something or some place	I can't feature you in Paris. You are too rural to enjoy a place like Paris. Can you feature David in New York City?
feature somebody in something	to imagine someone wearing something	I can't feature you in that ridiculous dress, Can you feature Fran in that hat?

feed (somebody, something, or an animal) with something	to feed something to someone, a group, or an animal	The camp cook fed them with hot dogs and beans. We fed the dogs with the leftovers.
feed (somebody, something, or an animal) with something	to use a tool or utensil to feed someone, a group, or an animal	He fed the baby with a spoon. We fed the entire group with paper plates.

feed (up)on something/somebody	to eat someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	They say that some Bengal tigers feed upon people. They feed on anything that moves.

feed off	to eat a food as part of an animals diet	The gecko FEEDS OFF mosquitoes and other insects.
feed off	to use something to your advantage	He FEEDS OFF people's fear of crime to get them to support his proposals.
feed off (of) something	to eat something in particular customarily (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	This creature feeds off fallen fruit. Mosquitoes seem to want to feed off of me!

feed on	to consume in an animal's diet	The bats FEED ON insects.
feed on	to give someone a particular food	He FEEDS his cat ON dry food.
feed on	to grow stronger	The opposition party's FEEDING ON the government's weaknesses.

feed something back into something	to return something back to where it came	I tried to feed the stamps back into the machine, but, of course, they wouldn't go. The machine made too many boxes, but you can't feed them back into it!
feed something back to somebody	to give or hand something back to someone	We fed the rope back to those in line behind us. Feed back the papers to the clerk.

feed something into something	to put something into something; to push a supply of something into something	I fed all the coins into the telephone and waited to be connected. I will feed every coin I have into the phone and see what it does for me. Did you feed the data into the computer?

feed something to (somebody or an animal)	to give someone or an animal food	Don't feed pizza to the baby. I fed the leftover turkey to the dog.
feed something to somebody	to tell someone lies	Don't try to feed that nonsense to me! I know it isn't so. Please don't feed any of those lies to Mark.
feed up	give someone a lot of food to restore their health, make them bigger, etc.	She's been ill for a fortnight so we're FEEDING her UP.

feed/throw somebody to the lions	to cause someone to be in a situation where they are criticized strongly or treated badly and to not try to protect them	No one prepared me for the audience's hostility - I really felt I'd been fed to the lions.

feel of !

feel about

feel for	I really feel for you.

feel out	to try to determine	Jim's a very moody person. You should feel out his mood before you ask him for any favors.

feel to !

feel (somebody) up	to touch sexually, grope; to touch someone in a passionate, sexual way.	Someone FELT me UP in the club as I was trying to get to the bar.
feel up to	to feel capable of doing something	I'm so tired. I don't think I FEEL UP TO going out tonight.
feel up to	to feel good/comfortable/strong enough to	Do you feel up to going out tonight?

fence (somebody or an animal) out	to keep someone or an animal out with a fence or barrier	We decided that living in the woods was satisfactory only if we fenced the wildlife out. We had to fence out the deer. We hoped we had fenced prowlers out with the tall electric fence.

fence somebody in	to restrict someone in some way	I don't want to fence you in, but you have to get home earlier at night. Don't try to fence me in. I need a lot of freedom. Your last stupid move fenced in the department, making us less effective.
fence something in	to enclose an area within a fence	When they fenced the garden in, they thought the deer wouldn't be able to destroy the flowers. We fenced in the yard to make a safe place for the children.

fence something/somebody off (from something)	to separate someone or something from something else with a fence or barrier	We fenced the children's play area off from the rest of the yard. Dave fenced off the play area. We fenced off the children from the rest of the yard.

fend for	to take care of yourself or someone with help from other people	The children had to FEND FOR themselves after their parents died.

fend off	to push an attacker away	She FENDED OFF the dog when it attacked her.
fend off	to resist something successfully	He managed to FEND OFF the criticism in the press.
fend off (an attack, etc.)	to successfully resist, fight back; Fight off.
fend off somebody	to stop someone from coming too near to you	She was never very good at fending off the boys.
fend off somebody	to stop someone from hurting you	The young woman was able to fend off the robber.
fend off something	to prevent something from happening	A politician has to learn how to fend off unfriendly questions, especially from the press.
fend something/somebody off	to hold someone or something off; to fight someone or something off	We knew we could fend them off only a little while longer. They could not fend off the attackers.

ferret out	to search and discover something	The investigation finally managed to FERRET OUT the truth.
ferret out something	to discover something after careful searching	Officials say they will ferret out abuses in the welfare program. If you're looking for owners of abandoned property, it can take years to ferret them out.
ferret out something	to get, remove, or retrieve something from someone or something, usually with cunning and persistence	I tried very hard, but I couldn't ferret the information out of the clerk. I had to ferret out the answers one by one.
ferret something out (from something)	to fetch something out from something	We will have to ferret the mouse out from behind the stove. We can ferret out the mouse with the aid of the cat.

ferry somebody around	to transport people here and there in small groups	I really don't want to spend all my days ferrying children around. Why am I ferrying around a bunch of kids all day?

ferry something/somebody across something	to transport someone or something across a river on a ferryboat	Can we get someone to ferry us across the lake to the island? After they ferried across all the cars, they closed the ferryboat down for the night.

fess up	to confess, admit something reluctantly	The company FESSED UP after they were exposed in the newspapers.
fess up	to give	FESS UP your share of the bill.
fess up (to something)	to confess to having done something (Short form of confess)	I tried to get the boy to fess up to doing it, but he wouldn't do it. Come on, fess up.
fess up to	to confess, admit reluctantly to something	They FESSED UP TO the crime.

festoon something/somebody with something	to drape or garland someone or something with something	Karen festooned her daughter with flowers for the party. The kids festooned the gymnasium with crepe paper and garlands of plastic flowers.

fetch something in	to bring or pull something in	Would you please fetch some more firewood in? Can you fetch in the paper?

fetch something out of something	to pull something out of something	Could you fetch me another hot dog out of the pot? I'll fetch out a hot dog for you.

fetch up	to empty one's stomach; to vomit	I really felt like I was going to fetch up. Somebody fetched up in here and didn't clean it up.
fetch up at	some place to reach a place; to end up at a place	We fetched up at Sam's house at about midnight. The car fetched up at the cabin and everyone got out.

feud (with somebody) (over something/somebody)	to fight with someone over someone or something; to have an ongoing battle with someone about someone or something	Some of the neighbors are feuding with each other over the parking places on the street. Don't feud over her with me!

fiddle about	to waste time doing silly things, or doing things unsuccessfully	We spent the whole afternoon FIDDLING ABOUT with the computer but couldn't get it to work.

fiddle around	to make small movements with your hands	He FIDDLED AROUND for something in his pockets.
fiddle around	to waste time doing silly things, or unsuccessful things	I FIDDLED AROUND with the phone but couldn't get any signal.
fiddle around (with something)	to play with something; to tinker with something ineptly	My brother is outside fiddling around with his car engine. He should stop fiddling around and go out and get a job.

fiddle away	to waste time	He FIDDLED AWAY the afternoon.
fiddle away something	if you play second fiddle to someone, they are in a stronger position or are more important than you (usually + to)	You'll have to choose between your wife and me. I won't play second fiddle to anyone.
fiddle away something	to waste time doing nothing in particular	Billy fiddles away hours on end arranging his model cars.
fiddle something away	to waste something	She fiddled the afternoon away. Don't fiddle away the afternoon. Get to work.

fiddle with something	to be busy with something without a special purpose fool with something	Don't fiddle with the remote control - you'll break it!
fiddle with something	to try to fix or use something complicated fool with something	The report says that computer users spend about one-third of their time fiddling with the operating system and organizing files.
fiddle with something/somebody	to tinker or play with someone or something	Please don't fiddle with the stereo controls. Leave your brother alone. Don't fiddle with him. He's cranky.

fidget around	to wiggle and twitch nervously	The child sat there, fidgeting around for over ten minutes. Please don't fidget around so.

fidget with something	to play with something nervously	Please don't fidget with your zipper. Carl is always fidgeting with his left ear.

fight against/with/for

fight back	to defend yourself, resist an attack	The army attacked the town and the inhabitants FOUGHT BACK fiercely.
fight back (at)	to try to control and emotion and keep it hidden	He tried to FIGHT BACK the tears when he heard the news of her death. It's hard for him to fight back.

fight down	I fought down the anger.

fight for
fight for something/somebody

fight something out	to struggle to see who wins, both by arguing or fighting	Their FIGHTING IT OUT to see who will become the next CEO.

fight off	to fight an attacker and force them back	The old lady managed to FIGHT the muggers OFF and they didn't get her purse.
fight off	to resist an illness or emotion	I'm FIGHTING OFF a cold.

fight of something/doing something !

figure in something	[for someone or something] to play a role in something	Tom figures in our plans for future office management. I don't wish to figure in your future.

figure on	to plan, expect something	What job do you FIGURE ON doing when you graduate? I'd better not figure on staying with them if they already have weekend guests. I had figured on serving ten people dinner and had just the right amount of food.
figure on doing something	to plan on something	I figured on arriving at the party around eight o'clock. Jane figured on spending $25 on dinner.
figure on something/somebody	to count on someone or something; to assume something about someone or something	I am figuring on twelve people for dinner next Friday. We are figuring on you and your wife for dinner next weekend.

figure out	to find the answer to a problem	The police couldn't FIGURE OUT how the burglars had got into the warehouse.
figure out	to solve or understand something	I can't figure out why she would lie to me like that.
figure out	to understand/find the answer	I'm trying to figure out how to assemble the wardrobe. I just can't figure her out.
figure out something	to understand something by thinking about it	After I figured out that I would earn only eighty cents an hour, I said forget it. She spent an hour trying to install the software, but John finally figured it out.
figure out something/somebody; figure something/somebody out
figure something out	to understand, find the answer	I need to figure out how to fit the piano and the bookshelf in this room.
figure somebody out	to understand why someone behaves the way they do	I've never been able to figure her out. Could anyone ever figure out my parents?
figure something/somebody out	to begin to comprehend someone or something; to come to understand someone or something better	I just can't figure you out. I can't figure out quiet people readily.

figure somebody as something	to think of a person as a particular type of person	I figured her as a reliable worker. We figured them all as good credit risks.

figure something up	to add up the amount of something	Please figure the bill up. We have to go now. I will figure up the bill right away.

figure something/somebody in(to) (something)	to reckon someone or something into the total	I will figure the electric bill into the total. We can figure in one more person.

filch something (from somebody)	to grab or steal something from someone	The young boy filched a candy bar from the store. Who filched my wallet from me?

file away	to put a document in the correct place for storage in a filing system	I FILED a copy of the letter AWAY for my records.
file something (away)	to put something away, usually in a file folder or file cabinet	She filed the letter away for future reference. Please file away this report. You will need it some day.
file something away (from something)	to remove something from something else by filing (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The dentist filed the sharp point away from the tooth. The dentist filed away the sharp point from the tooth. The dentist filed the point off.

file for something	to submit an application or document for something	The company filed for bankruptcy. Let's file for reorganization.

file in(to) (something)	[for a line of people] to move into something or some place	The people filed into the hall quietly. Everyone filed in quietly.

file out (of something)	[for a line of people] to move out of something or some place	The people filed quietly out of the theater. They filed out at the end.

file past (something/somebody)	[for a line or procession] to move past someone or something	The people filed past the coffin, looking sadly at the still figure inside. As they filed past, some wept openly.

file something against somebody	to lodge a criminal charge against someone	Sally filed a charge of assault against Max. The old man filed charges against the attacker.

file something down	to level off a protrusion by filing	File this edge down so no one gets cut on it. Please file down this edge.

file something with something/somebody	to submit an application or a document to someone or a group	You must file this copy with the state office. I will file this with my boss.

fill in	to complete a form	I FILLED IN the application form and posted it off.
fill in	to substitute someone at work	She's just had a baby, so we have hired someone to FILL IN for her. I'd better fill the cracks in with something. Would you fill in the form, please?
fill in	to complete (in writing, etc.)	Don't forget to fill in all the blanks on the application.
fill in	[for an indentation, hole, etc.] to become full	The scar filled in after a few months. Will this hole in the ground fill in by itself, or should I put some dirt in?
fill in (for somebody)	to do someone else's job temporarily	He discovered his love of acting when he filled in for a sick friend in a college play.
fill in (for something/somebody)	to substitute for someone or something; to take the place of someone or something	I will have to fill in for Wally until he gets back. I don't mind filling in.
fill in (for)	I will have to fill in for him till he gets back from his vacation.
fill in for	to substitute for	I was away for a few days, so they had to get someone to FILL IN FOR me. I was unable to go to the meeting yesterday, but Tom filled in for me.
fill in on	to give someone information	I'm sorry I missed the meeting; could you FILL me IN ON what happened.
fill in something	to complete a plan or idea	That's the basic idea, but we still have a lot of details to fill in.
fill in something	to give written answers to questions on a computer or on paper	Fill in the entire form and then click "Submit". If you have left out a date, first name, or other information, fill it in.
fill in something; fill something in
fill somebody in	to give someone information that they want or need	We filled her in on all the latest family news. I've asked Andy to fill in the marketing team about plans for the fall.
fill somebody in (on something/somebody)	to tell someone the details about someone or something	Please fill me in on what happened last night. Please fill in the committee on the details.
fill something in	to add material to an indentation, hole, etc., to make it full	You had better fill the crack in with something before you paint the wall. You should fill in the cracks first.
fill something in	to write in the blank spaces on a paper; to write on a form	Please fill this form in. I will fill in the form for you.
fill something in	to write information in blanks (Br.E.)	Please fill in the form with your name, address, and phone number.

fill on something; fill something on

fill out	to complete (a form/application)	I FILLED OUT the application form and mailed it. Would you fill out the form, please? Fill out this application and bring it back to me. Please fill out the enclosed form and send it back as soon as possible.
fill out	to become full; to gain weight	About a month after her debilitating illness, Maggie began to fill out again. The fruit on the trees began to fill out, and we knew it was going to ripen soon.
fill out	to gain weight, body mass etc.	Mike has really filled out over the past couple of years.
fill out something	to provide information on paper or on a computer	Please fill out the form before you call for an appointment. Print the document, fill it out, and bring it with you.
fill something out	to complete a form by writing in the blank spaces	Please fill this form out and send it back to us in the mail. I will fill out the form as you asked.
fill something out	to write information in blanks (N.Amer.)	The form must be filled out in capital letters.

fill somebody with something !

fill something to something	to add material to something up to a certain point	Fill the barrel up to here and no higher. Please fill the glass to the top.

fill something up	to fill to the top	I always fill the water jug up when it is empty.
fill something/somebody up (with something)	to put as much as possible into someone or something	We filled him up with chili and crackers. We will fill up the basket with leaves. I will fill the basket up with flowers.
fill up	to fill something completely	I stopped at the garage and FILLED UP with petrol. The hole filled up with water and had to be pumped. We will fill up at the next gas station.
fill up	to become full	The creek filled up after the heavy rain yesterday. The rain barrel began to fill up during the storm.
fill up	to fill one's gas tank	I've got to stop and fill up. The gas tank is running low. We will fill up at the next little town.
fill up something; fill something up

filter in	to move into a lane of traffic without making other cars stop	The slip lane allows traffic to FILTER IN at the junction.
filter in	to leak or seep into some place	The smell of bacon cooking filtered into his room and made him wake up. The smoke filtered in and burned our eyes.
filter in	[for people] to come into a place, a few at a time, over a period of time	One by one, the guests filtered into the room. They filtered in and started on the snacks.

filter out	to remove something unwanted	It FILTERS OUT all the impurities and chemicals in tap water so that it tastes better.
filter something out of something	to remove something from a fluid by running it through a filter	We filtered the odors out of the water and made it fit to drink. I'm glad you filtered out the odor.

filter through (something)	to pass or seep through something	The water filtered through the coffee grounds and dripped into the pot. The clear water filtered through and left the sand behind.

find fault (with something/somebody)	to find things wrong with someone or something	We were unable to find fault with his arguments. Sally's father was always finding fault with her.

find favor with somebody	to win the praise of someone	The maid found favor with the family and was given a large salary increase. Mary found favor with her employer because of her good ideas.

find (something) out	to discover or obtain information	I went to the library to FIND OUT all I could about the life and work of Joe Meek. We tried to keep the time of the party a secret, but Samantha found it out. He found out that his wife had been cheating on him. We don't know where he lives. How can we find out? I'm going to call the cinema to find out what time the film starts.

find out about something/somebody

finish (somebody or an animal) off	to kill someone or an animal that is already injured or wounded	They had to finish the wounded bear off with a revolver. The hunter finished off the bear.
finish (something) off (with something)	to bring something to a conclusion with something	She finished the dinner off with fancy cheeses and fruit. She finished off the dinner with pie.
finish off	to finish completely	They FINISHED OFF all the chocolates and had to go to the all-night garage to buy some more. Finish off your cup of coffee, please. I will finish my homework up in a few minutes.
finish somebody/something off	to destroy or completely defeat someone or something	Lack of water finished off the agricultural communities in the valley. He insisted that the disease was not going to finish him off.
finish something off	to eat or drink up all of something; to eat or drink up the last portion of something	Let's finish the turkey off. You finish off the turkey. I've had enough.
finish something/somebody off	to complete some activity being performed on someone or something	Let's finish this one off and go home. Yes, let's finish off this one. Nancy is cutting Elaine's hair. When she finishes her off, she will be ready to leave.

finish something/somebody up	to finish doing something to someone or something	I will finish this typing up in a few minutes. She finished up Fred in a short time.

finish with something	to complete something; to become done with something	I will finish with fixing this soon, and then you can have it. When will this be finished with?

fink on	to give away secrets about someone	He FINKED ON her to the authorities.

fink out	to fail to keep a promise, arrangement, etc.	He said he'd come with us then FINKED OUT at the last minute.

fire away	to ask questions	What do you want to know? FIRE AWAY and I'll tell you.
fire away	Mostly used as a command	Fire away. (Ask me what you want to ask me.)

fire in !

fire off	to send quickly, angrily or many (letter, emails, etc.)	He FIRED OFF an email complaining about the report.
fire off	to shoot, fire a gun (usually repeatedly)	The police FIRED OFF several rounds and killed the man.

fire somebody with !

fire up	to excite, become excited	Everyone was FIRED UP and desperate to get it finished in time.
fire up	to start a computer	She FIRED UP the computer and printed out a hard copy of the files.

firm something up	to make a monetary offer for something more appealing and attractive and therefore more "solid" and likely to be accepted	You will have to firm the offer up with cash today, if you really want the house. Please firm up this offer if you still want the house.
firm something up	to make something more stable or firm	We need to firm this table up. It is very wobbly. You need to use a whisk to firm up the egg whites.
firm up	to make things clearer in a negotiation or discussion	We need to FIRM UP some aspects of the contract before we sign it.
firm up	to become more stable or viable; to recover from or stop a decline	The economy will probably firm up soon. I hope that cattle prices firm up next spring.
firm up	to develop better muscle tone; to become less flabby	I need to do some exercises so I can firm up. You really ought to firm up.

fish for	to try to get some information or to get someone to say something	He's always FISHING FOR compliments.

fish out	to remove from water, such as the sea, rivers, etc.	It's fallen in the pool- I'll have to FISH it OUT.
fish out	to remove something from a bag, pocket, etc.	She reached into her handbag and FISHED some coins OUT.

fish something up out of something	to pull or hoist something out of something, especially after searching or reaching for it	The old shopkeeper fished a huge pickle up out of the barrel. He fished up a huge pickle.

fit in	to get on in a group of people	I didn't FIT IN with the other people working there so I left and found another job.
fit in	to have enough time or space for something	I didn't have time to FIT IN another appointment.
fit in	to belong or conform to some group, etc.	I'm a rebel. I don't fit in.
fit in(to)	It just doesn't fit in.

fit into	to become part of	Their ideas didn't FIT INTO our plans.

fit up	to frame someone- make them look guilty of something they haven't done	The police FITTED him UP for dealing drugs.
fit up	to provide equipment	They FITTED us UP with the latest IT.

fit/write something on !

fix (up)on something/somebody	to become preoccupied with someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	She seems to have fixed upon becoming a pilot. James is quite fixed on Janet.
fix something on(to) something	to attach something onto something	We fixed a notice onto the broken door so people wouldn't use it. Please fix a label on this package.

fix somebody up (with somebody/something)	something that you say which means if a system or method works well there is no reason to change it	We're happy with our exam system in Scotland, and as they say, if it ain't broke, don't fix it.
fix somebody up (with somebody/something)	to arrange something for someone	If they want to work, I can fix them up. I thought you didn't like her and had fixed her up with your friend Paul.
fix somebody up (with something)	to supply someone with something	I will fix you up with some alcohol and bandages. The clerk fixed up the lady with what she needed. Larry wanted some film and the clerk fixed him up with the best.
fix something/somebody up	to rehabilitate someone or something	The doctor said he could fix me up with a few pills. Is my bike fixed up yet? The doctor fixed up the injured hunter and sent him home.
fix up	to make an arrangement	He FIXED UP an appointment for me to see a specialist.

fix something for (a meal)	to prepare something for a specific meal	I will fix some chili for lunch. Will you fix something good for dinner tonight?

fix something over	to redo something; to do something over; to redecorate something	I want to fix this room over next spring. I really want to fix over this room.

fix something with somebody	to apologize or make amends to someone for something	She is upset at you, but you can fix it with her, I'm sure. I will fix it with her. Don't worry.
fix something with somebody	to get someone's agreement or permission for something	Don't worry, I'll fix it with your boss. Can you fix things with my brother? He doesn't want me to do this.

fizz up	[for a liquid] to sparkle and bubble with many tiny bubbles; [for a liquid] to effervesce	The cola drink fizzed up and spilled over. As she poured the root beer, it fizzed up over the glass.

fizzle out	to end in an unsuccessful way	The campaign started well, but FIZZLED OUT when they ran out of money.
fizzle out	to end in a disappointing way	I dated him a for a while, but our so-called romance fizzled out rather quickly.
fizzle out	to fade and then end weakly. Peter out	The party just kind of fizzled out.
fizzle out	to fade or become ineffectual gradually	The party began to fizzle out about midnight. The last clerk I hired fizzled out after the first week.
fizzle out	[for a liquid] to lose its effervescence	This seltzer has fizzled out. I need a fresh glass of it.
fizzle out	[for an item in a fireworks display] to fail to operate properly, often producing only a hiss	That last rocket fizzled out. Set off another one. A lot of the fireworks fizzled out because it was raining.

flack out	to collapse with exhaustion; to lie down because of exhaustion	All the hikers flacked out when they reached the campsite. After a few hours, the hikers all flaked out.

flag down	to signal at a vehicle to get it to stop	The police officer FLAGGED the car DOWN because it didn't have its headlights on.
flag down somebody/something	something that you say when you are pleased and surprised that something has happened	John's done the washing up. Put the flags out!
flag down somebody/something	to signal someone or something to stop by waving	A police officer flagged us down to check our vehicle registration and date of inspection.

flag up	raise an issue, or highlight its importance	We should FLAG UP working conditions at the meeting.

flake away (from something)	[for bits of something] to break away from the whole gradually or from natural causes	Bits of stone flaked away from the surface of the statue year after year. Bits of the steps flaked away from years of constant use.

flake down	to go to bed and go to sleep	I've got to go home and flake down for a while. Tom is flaked down for the night.

flake off (of) something	[for bits of something] to break away from the whole, perhaps under pressure or because of damage (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Little bits of marble began to flake off the marble steps. Bits flaked off from the whole.
flake something off of something	to make bits or flakes break off from the whole	The sculptor flaked bits of stone off the block, but you could not yet see what the block was going to become. She flaked off a little more.

flake out	to fall asleep from exhaustion	I worked till midnight then FLAKED OUT.

flame out	to fail	The company FLAMED OUT in the recession.

flame up	to burn brightly	The wood FLAMED UP in the fire.
flame up	[for a fire] to expand and send out larger flames	The raging fire flamed up and jumped to even more trees. As firemen opened the door and came in, the fire flamed up and filled the room.
flame up	[for something] to catch fire and burst into flames	The trees flamed up one by one in the forest fire. Suddenly the car flamed up and exploded.

flame with anger	[for someone's eyes] to "blaze" or seem to communicate a particular quality or excitement, usually a negative feeling	His eyes flamed with resentment when he heard Sally's good news. Her eyes flamed with hatred.

flank (up)on something/somebody	to be at the side of someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The Victorian mansion flanked on the tall, modern apartment building. It flanked on a broad expanse of fir trees.

flap around	[for a sheet of something] to blow, flop, or slap around, perhaps in the wind	The sails flapped around, making a lot of noise. The awning flapped around during the night.

flare out	to get angry suddenly	He FLARED OUT when he saw the dreadful report.
flare out	to spread out; to widen (Said especially of one opening of a tube or round-topped vessel)	The end of the pipe flared out to a larger diameter. The top of the vase flared out, and was decorated with little blobs of colored glass.
flare something out	to spread something out; to make something wider (Said especially of one end of a tube or round-topped vessel)	Can you flare the end of this pipe out a little? Flare out the end of this pipe.

flare up	to lose one's temper at someone or something	I could tell by the way he flared up at me that he was not happy with what I had done. I didn't mean to flare up.
flare up	to happen suddenly	Severe thunderstorms flare up there at almost any time during the summer. You may not feel like chopping vegetables when the pain in your hands flares up.
flare up	when trouble suddenly appears	The argument FLARED UP when he was rude to them.
flare up	[for a dispute] to break out or escalate into a battle	A war flared up in the Middle East. We can't send the whole army every time a dispute flares up.
flare up	[for a fire] to burn brightly again and expand rapidly	After burning quietly for a while, the fire suddenly flared up and made the room very bright.
flare up	[for a pain or medical condition] to get worse suddenly	My arthritis flares up during the damp weather.
flare up	[for something] to ignite and burn	The firewood flared up at last - ;four matches having been used.

flash across something	[for an idea or image] to move quickly through one's mind	A solution to the problem suddenly flashed across my mind. Thoughts of food flashed across my mind, and I began to be very hungry.
flash across something	[for something bright] to move quickly across something	The telephone number flashed across the television screen too fast for me to copy it down. The spotlight flashed across the audience, blinding me as it went by.

flash back (to something/somebody)	to return briefly to a view of someone or something in the past (In films, literature, and television)	The story suddenly flashed back to Tom when he was a child. The story flashed back to Tom's childhood.

flash in !

flash into !

flash off	[for a light] to go off suddenly (See also flash on)	The light flashed off and it was dark for a few minutes. When the lights flashed off, I was setting my watch.

flash on	[for a light] to turn on suddenly	The light flashed on and woke us up. When the light flashed on, I had just been getting to sleep.
flash on something	to remember something suddenly and vividly	Then I flashed on a great idea. I was trying to flash on her name, but I couldn't bring it to mind.
flash on something/somebody	[for a light] to shine on someone or something suddenly or in bursts	The orange neon light flashed on John's face, making him look quite strange. The light flashed on the window shade, startling the occupants of the room.

flash out	[for a light] to shine out of something suddenly or in bursts	The light flashed out, signaling us to stay away from the rocks. Under the door, we saw a light flashing out. Someone was watching television in that room.

flash something around	to display something so everyone can see it (Usually something one would hold in one's hand)	Don't flash your money around on the streets. She flashed around the pictures of her grandchildren every chance she got.

flash something at something/somebody	to shine a light quickly on someone or something	Larry flashed a light at Frank to verify his identity. We flashed the light at each doorway, looking for the address we had been sent to.
flash something at something/somebody	to show something, such as a badge, to someone or a group quickly	The cop flashed his badge at the suspect. The security officer came in and flashed his badge at the board of directors.

flash something up (some place)	to shine a light upwards toward something	Flash your light up into the tree. She flashed up her light at the cat in the tree. Gloria flashed the light up.

flash through !

flash with !

flat on !

flat out	as fast as possible	The painters have been working flat out to get the job finished. She drives as though her car has only two speeds - flat out and stopped.
flat out	at top speed	How fast will this car go flat out? This car will hit about 110 miles per hour flat out.
flat out	clearly and definitely; holding nothing back	I told her flat out that I didn't like her. They reported flat out that the operation was a failure.
flat out	clearly and without confusion	The coach told me flat out "You're too small". I don't want to flat out say I never did it when maybe I just don't remember having done it.

flatten something/somebody out	to make someone or something flat	If you fall under the steamroller, it will flatten you out. Flatten out that dough a little more. Please flatten it out.

fleck something with something	to put little specks of something on something	They flecked the little figures with some kind of powder that made them sparkle. His hair was flecked with gray.

flee from something/somebody	to run away from someone or something	The robber fled from the scene of the crime. The children fled from the wrath of the old man.

flee to something	to escape to something or some place	We fled to our little place on the coast. They never found us. The little mouse fled to its hole in the wall when the cat came around.

flesh out	to add more details or information	The recent government report FLESHED OUT the draft proposals.
flesh out	to become more fleshy	She began to flesh out at the age of thirteen. After his illness, Tom fleshed out and regained his strength.
flesh out something	to add more detail to something in order to make it more interesting or easier to understand	We need some real figures and evidence to put flesh on the theory. It would be wise to put flesh on the bones of your basic proposal before you ask them to consider it.
flesh out something	to explain something more completely	She sketches a character's outline in just a few words and then vividly fleshes out her portrait as the book goes along.
flesh something out (with something)	to make something more detailed, bigger, or fuller	This is basically a good outline. Now you'll have to flesh it out. The play was good, except that the author needed to flesh out the third act. It was too short.

flex something out of !

flick out	[for the ends of a flame] to reach out as the flame burns	The flames of the campfire flicked out and threatened the cold fingers that were too close. The flames flicked out from the burning house and set a nearby tree on fire.
flick out	[for the tongue of a reptile] to come out suddenly	The snake's tongue flicked out regularly. The lizard's tongue flicked out, grabbed the insect and ate it.

flick over	to change tv channels quickly	She FLICKED OVER to see if the news had started.

flick something off something/somebody	to brush or knock a speck of something off of someone or something with a quick movement	She flicked a speck of lint off his collar. She flicked off the lint.

flick something on	to turn something on, using a toggle switch	Mary came into the room and flicked the light on. Please flick on the light.

flick something out	[for a reptile] to push out its tongue quickly	The lizard flicked its tongue out repeatedly. The lizard kept flicking out its tongue at regular intervals.

flick something with something	to brush or knock something with something quickly or lightly	She flicked her finger at the fly that had lighted nearby. Tom flicked the vase with his sleeve and knocked it over.

flick through	to change tv channels repeatedly	I FLICKED THROUGH the channels to see if there was anything worth watching.
flick through	to look through something quickly	I FLICKED THROUGH the magazine and decided to buy it.
flick through (the channels)	to channel surf - to go from one TV chanel to the next, seeing what's on TV. Also used as a synonym for "to flip through"
flick through something	to turn quickly through the pages of something	Colleen flicked through the magazine, looking only at the advertisements. I have only had time to flick through the manuscript, but it looks okay.

flicker out	[for a flame] to dwindle, little by little, until it goes out	The candle flickered out, leaving us in total darkness. When the last flame flickered out, the room began to get cold.

flinch from something/somebody	to move back suddenly from someone or something; to shrink (back) (from someone or something) suddenly	She struck at him and he flinched from her. At the last minute the center fielder flinched from the ball.

fling something at something/somebody	to throw something roughly or carelessly at someone or something	Don't fling that towel at me! Don't just fling that paper at the wastebasket, hoping it will get there!

fling something in(to) something	to throw something into something	I will fling this thing in the trash. It is junk! Liz opened the laundry chute and flung in her clothes. She flung them in.

fling something off (of) something	to yank or pull something off something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	He flung the bedspread off the bed and dived in. He flung off the covers and dived into bed.

fling something on oneself	to put an article of clothing onto oneself hastily	She got up and flung on her robe. She flung her robe on and went to answer the door.

fling something up (in something)	to throw one's arms or hands up in an expression of some emotion, such as despair, horror, disgust, resignation	She flung her hands up in despair. She flung up her hands and cried out for help.
fling something up !

fling something/somebody around	to sling or throw someone or something around	Don't fling your wet clothing around. You are messing up the whole room. Don't fling around all your clothes.

fling something/somebody aside	to toss or sling someone or something aside or out of the way	She flung aside the covers and leaped out of bed. She flung the covers aside.

fling something/somebody away	to throw or sling someone or something away or out of the way	You can't just fling me away! I am your eldest son! You can't just fling away the things you don't want!

fling something/somebody back	to return someone or something by slinging or throwing	She took the little fish and flung it back into the water. Did you fling back the ball to Roger?
fling something/somebody back	to sling or throw someone or something backwards	I had to fling the child back, away from the fire. I flung back the door and ran out. Walt grabbed at the door and flung it back.

fling something/somebody down	to throw or push someone or something down	He flung the book down in great anger. He flung down the book and ran from the room.

fling something/somebody out of something	to sling or throw someone or some thing out of something or some place	In anger, she flung the cat out of the window. She flung out the cat and closed the window.

fling up	to empty one's stomach; to vomit	I was afraid I was going to fling up. Who flung up on the sidewalk?

flip around	to turn end for end, all the way around, quickly	The alligator flipped around and hissed at us. The kitten flipped around and pounced on my hand.

flip off	to extend your middle finger as a gesture of contempt	When the police were walking away, he FLIPPED them OFF.
flip somebody off	to give someone the finger, that is raise the middle finger, a rude sign (The digitus impudicus)	The youth flipped the police officer off. Not a good idea. He flipped off the cop. You better not flip a cop out! The little kid flipped the cop the bird and didn't even know what it meant.

flip out	to become very excited and lose control	He FLIPPED OUT when he won the final.
flip out	to lose control of oneself	After a sleepless night, Wally simply flipped out. I felt like I was going to flip out from the steady dripping of the faucet.
flip out	to suddenly become excited, frightened, or crazy	He didn't just flip out and start shooting, he planned to kill them. The first time I saw that film, I absolutely flipped out. Usage notes: also used in the form flip someone out: I am not easily scared, but this totally flipped me out.

flip over	to turn over quickly	The fish flipped over and flipped back over again. The cat flipped over and ran away.
flip over something/somebody	to become very excited about someone or something; to lose control because of someone or something	I flipped over her the first time I ever saw her. The guests really flipped over the Beef Wellington!
flip something/somebody over	to turn someone or something over quickly	He flipped over the fish and removed the scales from its other side. Billy flipped Bobby over and started hitting him on the other side.

flip somebody for something	to flip [a coin] with someone to determine the posession of something or the right to do something	Maybe it's yours; maybe it's mine. I'll flip you for it.

flip through	to look quickly through a magazine, book, etc.	I FLIPPED THROUGH the latest issue of the magazine in the shop and decided to buy it.
flip through	to look, glance through very quickly	He flipped through the newspaper.

flirt with somebody	to tease or trifle with someone alluringly	Are you flirting with me? Everyone knows that married men aren't supposed to flirt with anyone.
flirt with something	to consider something briefly and not seriously	At one time he flirted with the idea of running for the presidency, though nothing came of it.
flirt with something	to think about doing something; to toy with an idea; to consider something, but not too seriously (See also flirt with someone)	I flirted with the idea of going to Europe for two weeks. Jane flirted with the idea of quitting her job.

flit about	to move about quickly; to dart about	A large number of hummingbirds were flitting about. Butterflies and moths flitted about among the trees and flowers.

flit from (something to something else)	[for an insect] to fly quickly from one thing to another	The butterfly flitted from flower to flower.
flit from (something to something else)	[for someone] to go quickly from task to task, spending little time on each one	The housekeeper only flits from room to room without ever getting anything completely clean.

float (up)on something	to drift as if on the surface of something; to drift along through the air (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The little tufts of dandelion seeds floated upon the breeze. The fluff floated on the breeze.
float on !

float around	to float from here to there freely	All sorts of paper and trash were floating around on the surface of the pond. Water hyacinths floated around, making a very tropical scene.

float into something	to move into something gently, as if floating	She floated into the room, looking like Cinderella before midnight. Tom and Gloria floated into the theater like a king and queen. They must have rehearsed it.
float into something	to move on water or in air into something	The huge cruise ship floated majestically into the harbor. The kite floated into a tree and was ruined.

flock after something/somebody	to follow someone or something in a group	The children flocked after the man playing the flute. Fans flocked after the movie star as he went from his limo into the hotel.

flock around something/somebody	to crowd around someone or something	All the children will flock around the magician to see how the tricks are performed. The guests flocked around the birthday cake.

flock in(to) (some place)	[for people] to move into some place in crowds	People were flocking into the store where everything was on sale.

flock to something/somebody	[for people] to come to someone or something in great numbers	Many people flocked to the shopping mall for the post holiday discounts. The kids flocked to the movie theater on Saturday afternoon.

flog off	sell something cheaply to get rid of it	The council FLOGGED OFF the land cheaply to a developer who had close links to a few of the councillors.

flog somebody to !
flog something to !

flood in	[for a fluid] to flow quickly into something in great volume	The water flooded in and soaked the carpets.
flood in	[for large amounts or numbers or people or things] to pour or rush into something	The people flooded into the hall. We opened the door, and the dogs and cats flooded in.

flood out	[for people] to rush out of something or some place	The people flooded out of the theater, totally disgusted with the performance.
flood out	[for water or something that flows] to rush out of something	The water flooded out of the break in the dam.
flood something/somebody out of something	[for too much water] to force someone or something to leave something or some place	The high waters flooded them out of their home. The high waters flooded out a lot of people.

flood something/somebody with something	to cover or inundate someone or something with something	We flooded them with praise and carried them on our shoulders. The rains flooded the fields with standing water.

flop around	[for something] to turn around awkwardly; [for a fish out of water] to squirm and flap	The hose flopped around, throwing water first this way and then that, knocking down plants as it flopped. A number of fish flopped around in the bottom of the boat.

flop as something	to be a failure in a particular aspect of something in one's life or career	He flopped as an actor. I don't want to flop as a public speaker.

flop down	to sit down heavily or awkwardly	Be graceful. Don't just flop down! When I reached the chair, all I could do was flop down.
flop something down on(to) something	to drop or slap something down on something	She flopped the liver down on the cutting board. She flopped down the raw meat.

flop into something	[for someone] to fall or drop into something, such as bed, a chair, a bathtub, etc.	Maggie flopped into the chair and slipped off her shoes. Tom flopped into bed and fell fast asleep.

flop something/somebody over	to turn someone or something over, awkwardly or carelessly	They flopped the unconscious man over, searching for his identification. They flopped over the injured man.

flounce in (to some place)	to move into a place with exaggerated or jerky motions	A couple of teenagers flounced into the store and started examining the most expensive merchandise. They flounced in and caught the eye of the security guard.

flounce off	leave a place or walk away from someone angrily	He FLOUNCED OFF when they laughed at him.

flounce out	leave a place angrily	He FLOUNCED OUT when the press started criticising him.
flounce out (of some place)	to bounce or bound out of some place	She turned up her nose and flounced out of the shop. She flounced out in anger.

flounder around	to struggle or wallow around	The whole company is just floundering around and getting nowhere. The horse floundered around, trying to get across the soggy pasture.

flounder through something	to struggle awkwardly through a difficult situation	We floundered through the performance. I don't know how we did it, but we did it. We just floundered through our presentation, hoping for a lot of questions.
flounder through something	to struggle through something, such as a mire, swamp, etc.	The Jeep floundered through the swamp without getting stuck. The horse floundered through the muddy field.

flow (from something) (to something)	to course from one thing to another	This water flows all the way from Minnesota to the Gulf of Mexico. Rain flows to the river from this very drain.

flow across something	to stream or glide across something	A mass of cold air flowed across the city and froze us all. The floodwaters flowed across the fields and ruined the spring planting.

flow along	to move along evenly, as a liquid flows	At the base of the dam, the river began to flow along at a slower pace. The project flowed along quite nicely.

flow away	to course or move away	The floodwaters flowed away as fast as they had come. All the spilled water flowed away.

flow from something	to run out from something	The blood flowed from the wound on his hand and stained his shirt. The oil flowed from the cracked engine and made a mess on the floor.

flow in(to) something	to course into something; to pour into something	The words flowed into my head, and I felt like I could write again. The water flowed in when I opened the door on the flood.

flow out	to course out of something	The apple juice flowed out of the press as we turned the crank. It stopped flowing out when we had crushed the apples totally.
flow out	[for people] to issue forth from something	The people flowed out of the stadium exits. At the end of the game, the people flowed out in a steady stream.

flow over something/somebody	[for a liquid or something that flows] to move over someone or something	The water flowed over the land, covering everything. She slipped and fell into the icy creek and the water flowed over her, freezing her almost to death.
flow over something/somebody	[for some kind of feeling] to envelop someone	A sense of peace flowed over her. Patriotic feelings flowed over the crowd as they listened to the national anthem.

flow with something	to have some liquid coursing on the surface or within someone or something	The sewers were flowing with the floodwaters. Her veins must flow with ice water. She is so cold.

flub something up	to mess something up; to ruin something	I saw you play in the tournament last Friday. You really flubbed it up, if you don't mind me saying so. You really flubbed up the tournament.
flub up	to make an error	I flubbed up again!

fluctuate between (somebody and somebody else)	to waver between choosing one person and another	I am fluctuating between Sam and Tony as my choice. The manager fluctuated between Mary and Sarah as the new assistant.
fluctuate between (something and something else)	to move between one thing and another; to change from one thing to another	Things seemed to fluctuate between the very good and the very bad. The temperature in here fluctuates between too hot and too cold.

fluctuate with something	to vary in accord with something	The tides fluctuate with the phase of the moon. Frank's blood pressure fluctuates with his mood.

fluff something out	[for a bird] to move its feathers outward	The parrot said good night, fluffed its feathers out, and went to sleep. The bird fluffed out its feathers.

fluff something up	to make something soft appear fuller or higher	Fluff your pillow up before you go to bed. She fluffed up her pillow before retiring.

flunk out (of school)	to be forced to leave school because of failing work	He had been a computer-science student before he flunked out of a California university.
flunk out (of school)	to leave school or a course because of failure	Fred flunked out of school and never tried to go back. That's it. All F's. I've flunked out.
flunk somebody out	to give one a grade that forces one to leave school or a course	The math professor flunked me out. He expects too much. She flunked out half the class!

flush out somebody/something	even with something; sharing a surface with something	The edge of the sink is flush with the counter. The wood flooring is flush with the carpet so people won't trip.
flush out somebody/something	if someone is in the first flush of something, they are at the start of it	You're no longer in the first flush of youth, you know, Dad!
flush out somebody/something	to force a person or animal to stop hiding	The military stormed the building and set it on fire to flush out the militants hidden inside. A hunting dog's job is to flush out whatever it is you're hunting.
flush out somebody/something	[of a face] red with anger, embarrassment, rage, etc.	He faced the woman he had dreamed about all his life. His face flushed with recognition and his heart pounded. Ellen's face flushed with embarrassment.
flush out something	to cause something to become obvious	We ran the new computer system for a week to flush out any problems with the software.
flush something out	to clean something out with a flow of liquid	Flush the fuel line out to clean it. Please flush out the fuel line and clean it.

flush something away	to wash something unwanted away	Flush all this mess away! Fred flushed away all the leaves on the sidewalk.

flush something/somebody out of some place	to cause someone or something to leave a hiding place (Originally from hunting)	The police flushed the gunman out from his hiding place. They flushed out the crooks.

flutter about	to fly about with quick, flapping motions of the wings	The moths fluttered about aimlessly. A few birds fluttered around.
flutter about	[for someone] to move about quickly and busily	Aunt Margaret fluttered about, picking up after everyone. Stop fluttering around and sit down!
flutter about something	to fly around something or some place	The moths were fluttering about the lightbulb. The butterflies fluttered around the bright flowers.
flutter about something	to keep moving busily within a particular place	The maid fluttered about the house, dusting and arranging. She fluttered around the house from room to room.

flutter down	[for flying or falling things] to flap or float downward	The butterflies fluttered down onto the flowers. The leaves fluttered down from the trees when the breeze blew.

flutter over something/somebody	to fly or flap above someone or something (Also said of a person being fussy about someone or something)	The little moths fluttered over us while we were in the garden. The birds flutter over the fountain, eager for a bath.

fly about	to circulate (rumours, etc.)	The rumour has been FLYING ABOUT for the past week, but no one has confirmed it.

fly around	to circulate (rumours, etc.)	There are a lot of stories FLYING AROUND about her past.

fly at	to attack	The dog FLEW AT the cat when it came into the garden.
fly at	to criticise or shout angrily	He FLEW AT them for not trying hard enough.

fly by	when time appears to move quickly	As I get older, the years just FLY BY.

fly in(to)	I'm flying into Stansted.

fly into	change emotion quickly	He FLEW INTO a rage.
fly something/somebody (into some place) (from some place)	to transport someone or something to some place from some place	We flew the documents into Adamsville from Springfield. We flew in the documents to Chicago from Springfield.

fly off !

foam at !

fob off	to lie or deceive someone	He FOBBED us OFF with a really stupid excuse.
fob off	to make or persuade someone to accept something	I FOBBED it OFF Paul.
fob off on (onto)	make or persuade someone to accept something you don't want	I FOBBED the work ON the others. I FOBBED the fake note ONTO a shopkeeper.
fob off with	make or persuade someone to accept something of lower quality than they wanted	He FOBBED her OFF WITH some fake gold.
fob something off on somebody	to get rid of someone or something by transferring someone or something to someone	Don't try to fob your girlfriend off on me! He also fobbed off a bad car on Jane. Some car dealers are always trying to fob something off.
fob something off on somebody	to trick or persuade someone to take something	Do you think we can fob the children off on Grandma this weekend? This guy fobbed off a fake diamond on me.

focus on	to concentrate on something	The report FOCUSES ON the company's weak points. The advertising campaign will focus on the quality of the product. She focused on this issue.
focus on something/somebody	to aim and adjust a lens (including the lens in the eye) onto someone or something	I focused on the flower and pressed the shutter release. I focused on Fred and snapped just as he moved.
focus on something/somebody	to dwell on the subject of someone or something	Let's focus on the question of the electric bill, if you don't mind. Let us focus on Fred and discuss his progress.
focus something on something/somebody	to aim a lens at someone or something and adjust the lens for clarity	I focused the binoculars on the bird and stood there in awe at its beauty. He focused the camera on Jane and snapped the shutter.
focus something on something/somebody	to direct attention to someone or something	Could we please focus the discussion on the matter at hand for a few moments? Let's focus our attention on Tom and discuss his achievements so far.

fog over	[for something made of glass] to become covered over with water vapor	The windshield fogged over because I forgot to turn on the defroster. The mirror fogged over, and I couldn't see to shave.

fog something up	to make something made of glass become covered with a film of water vapor	The moisture fogged the windshield up, and we had to stop to clean it off. The moisture fogged up the glass.
fog up	[for something made of glass] to become partially or completely obscured by a film of water vapor	The glass fogged up, and we couldn't see out.

foist something on somebody	to cast someone or something unwanted off on someone or a group	Please don't try to foist cheap merchandise off on me. Don't foist off your brother on me! You can't foist that stuff off! It's worthless! People won't buy it!
foist something on somebody	to force someone to accept or experience something (Usage notes: sometimes in the form foist something off on someone)	We even foist junk food on children in school cafeterias. You cannot foist this ridiculous plan off on the public.

fold back	[for a sheet of something] to bend back	The cloth folded back, revealing the faded upholstery below. The top page folded back, revealing a neatly typed manuscript.
fold something back	to bend a sheet or flap of something back	She very carefully folded the page back to mark her place in the book. She folded back the page to mark her place in the book. The surgeon folded the flap of skin back, revealing the torn ligament.

fold something away	to fold something up and put it away	Please fold the maps away. Please fold away the maps neatly.

fold something into something	and fold something in to blend something, such as eggs, into batter (See also cut something into something)	Carefully, the chef folded the eggs into the other ingredients. The chef folded in the eggs.
fold something into something	to make an object by folding something, such as paper or cloth	He folded the paper into a little bird. Wally can fold a sheet of paper into an airplane that flies.

fold something over	to double something over on itself; to make a fold in something	I folded the paper over twice to make something I could fan myself with. Fold over each sheet, and then place it on the stack.

fold something up	to double something over into its original folded position	Please fold the paper up when you are finished. Please fold up the paper.
fold something up	to put an end to something; to close a money-losing enterprise	Mr. Jones was going broke, so he folded his business up. The producer decided to fold up the play early. It was losing money.
fold up	to make a sheet of paper smaller	Darren FOLDED UP the letter and put it in an envelope.
fold up	[for a business] to cease operating	Our shop finally folded up because of the recession. Tom's little candy shop folded up.
fold up	[for someone] to faint	She folded up when she heard the news. I was so weak that I was afraid I was going to fold up.
fold up	[for something] to close by folding	The table just folded up with no warning, trapping my leg.

follow in !

follow on	to depart and arrive after someone or something	I can't leave now. I will have to follow on after the others. I will follow on later.
follow on	to die at a date later than someone or a group	She followed on after her husband a few years later, He died in June and she followed on in August.

follow somebody up	to check on the work that someone has done	I have to follow Sally up and make sure she did everything right. I follow up Sally, checking on her work. I'll follow up on her.
follow something up	to check something out; to find out more about something	Would you please follow this lead up? It might be important. Please follow up this lead. I'll follow up on it. Yes, please follow up.
follow something up	to make sure that something was done the way it was intended	Please follow this up. I want it done right. Please follow up this business. I'll follow up on it.
follow up (on something)	to act on something	Some students said they were going to collect clothing, but they didn't follow up. You have to follow up on your application.
follow up (on something)	to discover more about something	I'd like to follow up on Rita's question because I'm not sure I understood your answer to her.
follow up on (something)	to go back to something that was talked about earlier, usually in order to check progress, discuss details, etc.	I'm calling to follow up on our conversation this morning.
follow up with somebody	to continue talking to or working with someone	I left Cynthia a message and asked her to follow up with Mr. Harley about his computer problem. Usage notes: usually used when you talk to someone to be sure a problem is solved or a suggestion is acted on.
follow up with something	to do something after having done something else	The gymnasts perform compulsory routines today and follow up with individual events tomorrow.

follow something/somebody about	to go the same route as someone or something all the time; to trail someone or something	Why are you always following me about? Stop following me around.

follow something/somebody out	to go out right after someone or something	I followed her out and asked her if I could take her home. The dog followed Billy out and went to school with him.

follow through (on something)	to continue something until it is completed	It was an unpopular idea, but he followed through on it anyway. I am sorry now that I didn't follow through with music lessons when I was younger.
follow through (with something)	to complete an activity, doing what was promised	I wish you would follow through with the project we talked about. You never follow through!

fool around	to be unfaithful	She suspects her husband is FOOLING AROUND with one of her friends.
fool around	to not be serious	The teacher was angry because the classes were FOOLING AROUND.
fool around	to kiss and touch	Tom and Rachel were fooling around at the party.
fool around	to play, joke around	The kids were fooling around outside. Stop fooling around.for chicken feed	for nearly nothing; for very little money (Also used without for)	Bob doesn't get paid much. He works for chicken feed. You can buy an old car for chicken feed. I won't do that kind of work for peanuts!

forage (around) (for something)	to search for something, especially something to eat	I will go to the kitchen and forage around for some cereal or something. The rabbits got into the garden and were foraging for a good meal.

force to be reckoned with	someone or something that is important and powerful and must not be ignored	Walter is a force to be reckoned with. Be prepared to deal with him. The growing discontent with the political system is a powerful force to be reckoned with.

foreclose on something	to take the property on which a mortgage is held; to satisfy an unpaid loan by taking ownership of the property put up for security on the loan	If you don't pay, we will be forced to foreclose on your house. The bank foreclosed on our property.

forewarn somebody about something	to warn someone about someone or something	They forewarned us of your strange behavior. Didn't we forewarn you about Max's problem?

forge ahead	to make a lot of progress in a short time	We've been FORGING AHEAD with the work and should be finished well before the deadline.
forge ahead	to move forwards very quickly	She FORGED AHEAD of the other runners and won.

forget about	She forgets about calling us.
forget about something	to do not expect something	The hotel has room service, but forget about anyone wheeling an elegant meal into your room.
forget about something/somebody	to fail to remember something at the appropriate time	She forgot about paying the electric bill until the lights were turned off. She forgot about the children and they were left standing on the corner.
forget about something/somebody	to put someone or something out of one's mind	Don't forget about me! You ought to forget about all that.

forgive (him) for
forgive (somebody for ([doing] something)
forgive somebody for something	to pardon someone for something	Please forgive me for being late. He never forgave himself for harming her.

fork over something	to give something to someone unwillingly	The cops knew he had a knife, and they made him fork it over.
fork over something	to pay (perhaps unwillingly) for something (Often mention is made of the amount of money; See the examples)	Do you think I'm going to fork twenty dollars out for that book? Forking out lots of money for taxes is part of life.
fork over something	to pay money	We headed into the theme park after forking over $45 each.
fork something over (to somebody)	to give something to someone (Usually refers to money)	Come on! Fork the money over to me! Fork over the cash you owe me!

fork something out	to serve food to someone, using a fork. He forked out the chicken to everyone. He brought up a big dish of fried chicken and forked it out.
fork something out	to give out something to someone	We forked the coupons out to everyone who asked for them. We forked out the coupons.

form (up) into something	[for a group of people] to assume the shape of something	The boys formed up into a jagged line. We'll form into a line.
form something/somebody into something	to shape someone or something into something	We formed the people into a line. Kathy formed the clay into a small elephant.

form from something	[for something] to develop from something; [for something] to assume a shape, using something else as raw material	Suddenly, an idea began to form from the things that you had said. It seemed that a figure was forming from the mists arising from the swamps.

form something out of something	to shape something from something	He formed a tiny elephant out of the clay. Wally formed a mound out of the sand.

fortify (somebody or an animal) (against something) (with something)	to strengthen someone or an animal against something with something	I'll need a cup of hot chocolate to fortify me against the storm. We have to fortify the dogs against the cold with extra food.

foul out (of something)	[for a basketball player] to be forced out of a game because of having too many fouls	The center fouled out in the first fifteen minutes. Two other players fouled out soon after.

foul something/somebody up	to cause disorder and confusion for someone or something; to tangle up someone or something; to mess someone or something up	Go away! Don't foul me up any more. You've fouled up my whole day. Watch out! You're going to foul up my kite strings.
foul up	someone who is foul-mouthed swears a lot	He was foul-mouthed and violent.
foul up	to blunder; to mess up	Please don't foul up this time. The quarterback fouled up in the first quarter, and that lost us the game.
foul up	to make a mistake	I'm sorry, I fouled up - I meant to send the last message just to Frank, not the whole group.
foul up something	to damage a machine or system	Too much aspirin can really foul up your stomach.
foul up something	to spoil something by making a mistake or doing something stupid	It takes the same amount of time to do things right as to foul them up.

found something (up)on something	to establish something on some kind of basis or justification (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The owners founded this company upon prompt service. We founded our business on practically no money.

frame something in something	to express something in a particular way	He framed his comments in very simple language. I hope you frame your remarks more clearly next time.
frame something in something	to place a frame of something around something	Let us frame the photograph in a wood frame rather than a metal one. Alice chose to frame the painting in a simple, unmatted frame.

frame something out	to build the basic wood structure of a building, such as a house	The carpenters, working fast, framed the whole house out in a day. They framed out the house.

fray around/at !

freak (somebody) out	shocked; disoriented (Sometimes used of the effects of drugs or alcohol)	I was too freaked out to reply. Man, was I freaked.
freak (somebody) out	tired out; exhausted	I'm too freaked out to go on without some rest. The chick is really freaked. Let her rest.
freak (somebody) out	to become very excited or emotional	There was a bomb scare at the school, and parents were freaking out about their kids' safety. Her latest album just freaked me out.
freak out	to become very disturbed or angry	She FREAKED OUT completely when she didn't get the grades to get into university.
freak out	to go crazy/wild (because of emotion, anger, etc.)	My friend freaked out when he found out that his girlfriend was cheating on him.
freak out (over something/somebody)	to become very angry or lose control of one's mind because of someone or something that has happened	I absolutely freaked out over the whole business! Don't freak out at me!
freak somebody out	to shock or disorient someone	The whole business freaked me out. I didn't mean to freak out everybody with the bad news.

freeze (on)to something	[for something] to touch something very cold and freeze hard and fast to it	My hand froze to the railing. The branch froze onto the side of the house.
freeze something/somebody to !

freeze on (doing something)	a policy that put a temporary end to something	The company put a freeze on hiring as soon as they took us over.

freeze one's tail off	to freeze; to get very cold	Don't stand out there in the cold wind! You'll freeze your tail off! It's as cold as a welldigger's nose today. I about froze my tail off walking to work.

freeze out	to force to retire or withdraw from membership, a job, etc.	After Jim was FROZEN OUT of the case, they hired a new lawyer.
freeze out	to shut out or exclude by unfriendly treatment	They tried to FREEZE me OUT of the conversation.
freeze out somebody/something	to forever (Use caution with hell)	That's all right, boss; I can wait till hell freezes over for your answer. I'll be here till hell freezes over.
freeze out somebody/something	if you say that someone can do something until hell freezes over, you mean they will not get the result they want	They can talk until hell freezes over - they won't make me change my mind.
freeze out somebody/something	to prevent someone or something from being involved in an activity (Usage notes: usually said about an unfair way of preventing involvement)	The company tried to freeze out its competition by buying up all the gas stations in the area.
freeze somebody out	to lock someone out socially; to isolate someone from something or a group	We didn't want to freeze you out. You failed to pay your dues, however. They froze out the newcomers.
freeze somebody out	to make it too cold for someone, usually by opening windows or through the use of air-conditioning	Turn up the heat unless you're trying to freeze us out. Are you trying to freeze out everybody? Close the door.

freeze over	to become covered with ice (lake, river, pond, etc.)	The winter was very severe and the lake FROZE OVER.
freeze over	[for a body of water] to get cold and form a layer of ice on top	The pond froze over, so we went skating.

freeze something into something	to use cold to solidify something into a different state, usually water into ice	The extreme cold froze the water of the river into solid ice. The cold snap froze the water in the puddles into hard sheets of ice.
freeze something into something	to use cold to solidify something into a particular shape	We froze the ice cream into the shape of a penguin. This ice tray will freeze water into little round balls of ice.

freeze up	to be blocked with ice	The pipes all FROZE UP so no water came through.
freeze up	to be paralysed with fear	WE FROZE UP when we heard the window break.
freeze up	to stop working because the parts of a machine won't move	The gears had FROZEN UP.
freeze up	when a computer stops working	The computer FROZE UP; it showed me the blue screen of death and I couldn't reboot.
freeze up	[for someone] to become frightened and anxious, and be unable to move, speak, or continue with something	I froze up and couldn't say anything more.
freeze up	[for something] to freeze and stop functioning	The joint froze up and wouldn't move anymore.

freshen (yourself) up	to get cleaned up, rested up, or restored	I need a few minutes to freshen up before dinner.
freshen (yourself) up	to wash your hands or face or use the toilet	Velma said she needed to freshen up before supper.
freshen something/somebody up	to revive or restore the appearance or vitality of someone or something	What can we do to freshen this room up? A cold shower freshened up the runner.
freshen up	to add more alcohol to a glass before it is empty	Here, let me FRESHEN UP your drink.
freshen up	to quickly improve the appearance of something	The magazine gives you tips on how to FRESHEN UP your home cheaply.
freshen up	to wash quickly and improve appearance	I'm going to the bathroom to FRESHEN UP before they arrive.
freshen up something	to add to something to make it better or more interesting	She decided to wear her large silver pin to help freshen up the black dress. I'm getting another drink - can I freshen yours up?

fret about something/somebody	to worry about someone or something	Please don't fret about being a few minutes late. There is no need to fret over Larry.

friendly with/to somebody

frighten (somebody or an animal) into doing something	to threaten someone or an animal into doing something	You can't frighten me into leaving! Let's try to frighten the coyotes into running away.
frighten somebody (or an animal) into something	to scare someone or an animal into a particular state	They frightened me into a quivering mass. The mouse was frightened into a state of confusion.

frighten somebody (or an animal) into something	to scare someone or an animal into entering something or some place	The trouble in the neighborhood frightened most of the residents into their houses. The mouse was out of its hole, but we came in and frightened the little mouse back in.

frighten somebody out !

frighten something/somebody away	to scare someone or something off	The noise frightened the burglar away. Something frightened away the prowlers. The high prices frightened the shoppers off.

fritter away something	to waste money, time, or an opportunity	He was known to fritter away huge sums betting on the horses. I didn't do anything over vacation - I just frittered it away. Usage notes: usually used to show disapproval.
fritter away something	to waste something, such as money, on someone or something, foolishly	Did you fritter good money away on that old car? You frittered away one hundred dollars on that piece of junk?

front for	to represent someone, especially when covering illegal or wrongful activities	The solicitor FRONTS FOR a number of criminal gangs.
front for something/somebody	to serve as the public contact or public "face" for someone or something	Her publicity agent fronted for her most of the time. Max fronted for a gang of thieves.

front off	to confront someone and let them know you are prepared to fight	The two guys FRONTED each other OFF, but someone managed to calm them down before it got out of hand.
front off (about something)	to be brash and resentful about something	Todd was fronting off about his assignment and got a detention for it. You will wish you hadn't fronted off about your supervisor.

front on something	[for a building or a piece of land] to face out on something	The property fronts on a lovely boulevard that has very little traffic. Our house fronts on a lake.

front onto	to face (of a building)	My house FRONTS ONTO the main square.

front out	to face up to someone, withstand criticism	He accused her of lying, but she FRONTED him OUT.

front up	to advance cash for something	She FRONTED UP the money we needed.
front up	to appear somewhere for a short time	I hate these occasions, but I'll FRONT UP for the first half.

frost over	to become covered with frost	The windows had all frosted over in the night. The car windows frosted over.

frosted (over)	to angry; annoyed	The clerk was really frosted over when I asked for a better one. Why was he so frosted?

froth something up	to whip or aerate something until it is frothy	Froth the milk up before you add it to the sauce. Froth up the milk before you pour it in.
froth up	[for something] to build up a froth when whipped, aerated, or boiled	The mixture began to froth up as Dan beat it. The milk frothed up as the steam went through it.

frown at something/somebody	to scowl at someone or something	Please don't frown at me. I didn't do anything. Frank frowned at the dog and gave it a kick.

frown on	to disapprove	He FROWNS ON people making personal calls at work.
frown on something	to disapprove of someone or something; to show displeasure or disapproval of someone or something	You can wear jeans, but I think the restaurant frowns on shorts and sneakers. The Internal Revenue Service frowns on tax cheaters. Aunt Clara always seemed to frown on my cousin for some reason.

fry something up	to cook something by frying	Let's fry some chicken up for dinner. We fried up some chicken.

fuck (something) up	if people fuck like bunnies they produce too many babies very quickly	Ten kids! Those people fuck like bunnies.
fuck (something) up	to damage something	He made a number of bad decisions and really fucked up the company.
fuck (something) up	to do something very badly	I asked you to buy some milk and bread - how could you fuck that up?
fuck up somebody	to harm someone	Then he got into drugs and fucked himself up.
fuck up somebody	to upset someone very much	She's been really fucked up since her parents' divorce.

fuck around	to waste time or behave in a way that is not serious (Usage notes: the opposite meaning is expressed by not fuck around)	We're not here to fuck around - we have work to do. You're just fucking around with small improvements when we need to make major changes. Pat pulled out a gun and said, "I'm not fucking around, man."

fuck with somebody	to annoy, anger, or hurt someone intentionally	If you look a little crazy, the guys will be less likely to fuck with you.

fuel something (up)	to put fuel into something	I have to fuel this car up before I go any farther. I need to fuel up the car.
fuel up	to fill one's tank with fuel	Let's stop here and fuel up. I need to fuel up at the next little town.

full of !

full ahead !

fulminate against something/somebody	to denounce someone or something	The workers were fulminating against their employer. They are fulminating against the president of the union.

fumble for something	to try to grasp awkwardly for something	He fumbled for his wallet, hoping Wally would pay the bill. Tex was shot while fumbling for his gun.

fume about something/somebody	to be very angry about someone or something	She was just fuming over her broken vase. She was still fuming about Larry the next morning.

funked out	intoxicated	Do you think you can go through life funked out all the time? Are you funked out again?

furnish something for something	to provide something to be used as something	Could you furnish the salad for our picnic? We can't furnish enough glassware for the whole party.
furnish something for something/somebody	to provide something for someone or a group	I would be happy to furnish dinner for the visitors. I furnished the board of directors with the information.

fuse something with something	to bond something together with something	You have to fuse the upper layer to the lower layer with heat. He used heat and pressure to fuse the patch with the soft rubber of the raft.
fuse with something	to bond with something	The metal has fused with the glass coating on the tank. I didn't know that metal could fuse with glass.

fuss (around) with something/somebody	to keep bothering with someone or something; to fiddle with someone or something	Don't fuss around with it. We'll have to get a new one. Don't fuss with your children. They will get along just fine without all that attention.

fuss about	to go about complaining; to move about in a busy manner	Don't fuss about so much. Things will take care of themselves. Now, stop fussing around and sit down.
fuss about something/somebody	to complain about someone or something	What are you fussing about now? Are you still fussing about Tony?

fuss at something/somebody	to complain at someone	Stop fussing at me! The squirrel is fussing at the dog.

fuss over something/somebody	to go to a lot of bother about someone or something	My aunt always fusses over me and my sister. You spend a lot of time fussing over your hair.

fuss with something	to argue about someone or something	Please don't make a fuss over who gets the last cookie. Please discuss it. Don't make a fuss over it!
fuss with something	to be busy with something without having a particular purpose	Jack had spent hours fussing with the old car.
fuss with something	to be very solicitous and helpful toward a person or a pet	How can anyone make a fuss over a cat? Billy was embarrassed when his mother made a fuss over him.
fuss with something	to complain loudly in order to show that you are very annoyed about something	Our food was cold so my father kicked up a fuss and refused to pay the service charge.
fuss with something	to try to fix something complicated	It's a mistake to fuss with your computer.
fuss with something	to worry about or make a bother about someone or something	Why do you make a fuss over a problem like that? Please don't make a fuss. Everything will be all right.


gad about	to visit a lot of different places for pleasure	I spent the afternoon GADDING ABOUT in the West End.

gad around	to go from place to place, having fun	I'm too old to gad around like that. She wasted too much time gadding about with her friends.
gad around	to visit different places for pleasure	I spent the afternoon GADDING AROUND looking for some books.

gag for	to want something a lot	I'm GAGGING FOR a drink.

gag on something	to choke on something; to retch on something	The dog is gagging on whatever you gave her. This fish is good, but I hope I don't gag on a bone.

gain over something/somebody !

gain from something	to benefit from something	I hope you gain from this experience. What do you think I will gain from this?
gain something from something	to earn or achieve something from something	I hope you gain something worthwhile from all this. I know I will gain some valuable experience from this job.

gain ground on somebody/something	to get a bigger share compared to others	The company's software business is gaining ground on its biggest competitor.

gain on something/somebody	to begin to catch up or move ahead of someone or something	We were gaining on them when they suddenly sped up. Our horse was gaining on the horse in front.

gain in something	to advance in a particular quality	Todd grew in stature and gained in wisdom. Mary gained in experience as the weeks went on.

gain something by doing something	to achieve some benefit by doing something	What did he gain by dropping out of school? I will gain some degree of security by investing in U.S. Treasury bonds.

gallivant around	to travel around aimlessly	Why don't you stop gallivanting around and come home for a while? Mary is off gallivanting around with her boyfriend.

galumph around	to move around looking for someone or something or transporting someone or something	I am so tired of galumphing around, dropping off and picking up kids. I have to stop galumphing around day after day.

galvanize somebody into action	to stimulate someone into some activity	The explosion galvanized Martha into action. We were galvanized into action by the storm.

gamble on something/somebody	to make a wager on something concerning someone or something	I wouldn't gamble on it happening. Don't gamble on that horse. You'll be sorry.
gamble on something/somebody	to run a risk by choosing or depending on someone or something	I wouldn't gamble on Ted's being able to come. I don't think he can. Don't gamble on Ted. I'm almost sure he won't come.

gamble something away	to lose all of something by gambling	He gambled all his money away. He gambled away all his money.

gang up	to form a group against something or someone	They GANGED UP to try to stop the new system.
gang up on	to harass, bully	They GANGED UP ON him because of the way he spoke.
gang up on	to join forces to go against someone, verbally or physically	Her mother and her sister ganged up on me. They kept blaming me for everything.
gang up on somebody	to form into a group and attack someone (Usually a physical attack, but it can also be a verbal attack)	We can't win against the robber unless we gang up on him. All right, you guys, don't gang up on me. Play fair!
gang up on somebody	to unite as a group against someone	It seemed like my creditors were ganging up on me.

gape at something/somebody	to stare at someone or something in wonder	Don't just stand there, gaping at me. Come in. Stop gaping at the storm clouds and get in here.

garner something in	to take something in and store it; to harvest something in and store it (Originally referred to grain stored in a granary)	Will they garner the crop in on time this year? They had garnered in the entire crop by late October.

garnish something with something	to embellish or decorate something, such as food, with something	For the final presentation, I will garnish the dish with a sprig of parsley. The roast was garnished with slices of apple.

gas something up	to put gasoline into a vehicle	I have to gas this car up soon. I will stop and gas up the car at the next little town.
gas up	to fill up one's gasoline tank with gasoline	I have to stop at the next service station and gas up. The next time you gas up, try some of the gasoline with alcohol in it.
gas up (something)	something that you say to someone when you want them to drive more quickly	Step on the gas, will you, we have to be there in five minutes!
gas up (something)	to put fuel in a vehicle	We stopped at a service station to gas up the car and clean the windshield. Gas it up and check the oil.

gasp at something/somebody	to inhale sharply in surprise or shock at someone or something	I gasped at the sight that lay before me. I saw how weary Denise looked and I gasped at her.

gasp for !

gasp something out	to utter something, gasping	She gasped the words out haltingly. Dan was just able to gasp out the instructions before he passed out.

gather around something/somebody	to collect around someone or something	Let's all gather around her and hear her out. Please gather around the table for dinner.
gather something/somebody around (oneself)	to collect people or things around oneself; to draw someone or something to oneself	He gathered a lot of arty people around himself. She liked to gather exotic plants around herself. Grandpa gathered all the kids around and read them a story.

gather somebody into something	to assemble or bring people into something or some place	The hostess gathered the children into the house just as the storm hit. She gathered in the children. Harry gathered them in before the storm.

gather something from somebody	to collect something from someone	I will gather the papers from Wally, and you go get those that Ted is working on. Would you gather the pictures from everyone? We have to leave now and take them with us.
gather something from something	to collect something from something	Kristine gathered the honey from the beehives. I gathered my money from the cashier.
gather something from something/somebody	to learn something from someone or something; to infer something from someone or someone's remarks (The something is often a clause shifted to another position in the sentence)	I gather from your brother that you do not approve of her. We gathered that from your remarks.

gather something up	to collect something; to pick something up	Let's gather our things up and go. Please gather up your things.
gather up	Let's gather up our things and leave.

gather something/somebody to oneself	to draw someone or something to oneself	The hen gathered her chicks to herself. Harry gathered the poker chips to himself.

gather something/somebody together	to assemble people or things together in one place	Gather every one together in the drawing room for a meeting. Please gather together all the suspects so that they can be questioned again. Would you gather all your papers together and put them away?
gather together	to assemble together	We will gather together on the main deck for a meeting. Let's all gather together this evening and sing.

gawk at something/somebody	to stare at someone or something, obviously and awkwardly	Why are you standing there, gawking at me? The tourists stood at the foot of the mountain and gawked at the top.

gaze around (at something/somebody)	to look all around at someone or something	The manager gazed around at each of us, and finally spoke. Tourists gazed around at the scenery for a while and got back in the bus. We just stood there, gazing around.

gaze at something/somebody	to stare at someone or something	I stood for an hour, gazing at the sea. She gazed at me for a moment and then smiled.
gaze at !

gaze on something/somebody	to look at someone or something; to survey someone or something	She gazed sullenly on the ruin that had been her home. The teacher gazed on the student and frightened her.

gaze out on something	to look out on something, such as a lovely view, from inside a building or from a particular spot	She gazed out on the flowering trees and knew that life would go on. Henry sat for hours, gazing out on the lake.

gear something to something/somebody	to cause something to match something else; to create or adapt something for a specific purpose	Tim geared his speech to his audience. The newspaper geared its language to a fourth-grade reading level.

gear something/somebody up (for something/somebody)	to prepare someone or something for someone or something	We have to gear up the workers for the arrival of the new manager. We geared ourselves up for Frank, who was coming to lecture to us.
gear up	to get ready for a busy period	The shops are GEARING UP for the New Year sales.
gear up for something/somebody	to get ready for something	We are busy gearing up for Joan's visit next week.

geek out	to talk at length about computing	Henry always GEEKS OUT at parties and bores all the people who don't know much about computers.

get (oneself) into a stew (over something/somebody)	to be worried or upset about someone or something	Please don't get yourself into a stew over Walter. Liz is the kind of person who gets into a stew over little problems.

get about	to become known	It didn't take long for the news to GET ABOUT- everyone's talking about it.
get about	to have personal or sexual relationships with many people	She GETS ABOUT a bit; she's always with some new guy.
get about	to walk or visit (many) places	She can't GET ABOUT much, but she is in her eighties. I GET ABOUT a lot with my job- last years I visited eleven countries.

get above	to behave as if you are better or more important than others	She's been GETTING ABOVE HERSELF since she got promoted. (This is normally used in progressive forms and followed by a reflexive pronoun, though 'get above your station' is also used.).

get across	to communicate (an idea) successfully	I just couldn't GET my message ACROSS at the meeting. How can I get it across to you
get across	to go from one side to the other	It's impossible to GET ACROSS the road with all this traffic.
get across	to move something from one side to the other	How are we going to GET these bags ACROSS the river?
get across to	to be convincing or make a good impression	How can I GET ACROSS TO my audience?
get something across/over	to communicate, make understandable	I tried to get my point across/over to the judge but she wouldn't listen.

get after	to chase	GET AFTER her and give her the message before she leaves the building.
get after	to nag or exhort someone	You should GET AFTER them to finish the work.

get ahead	to progress	Nowadays, you need IT skills if you want to GET AHEAD.
get ahead of	to move in front of	I work at home in the evening to GET AHEAD OF schedule.

get along	to have a good relationship	Why don't you two GET ALONG? You're always arguing.
get along	to leave	It's late; we must be GETTING ALONG.
get along (with)	to be on good terms/work well with; to be in good terms with somebody	I get along (well) with my mother-in-law.
get along (in)	to progress	How are you GETTING ALONG IN the company? How's the homework GETTING ALONG?
get along with	to deal with, handle	How are you GETTING ALONG WITH the training course?
get along with (somebody)	to have a good relationship with someone; to have a friendly relationship with; to be friendly toward	I like James, but I don't get along with his brother. I don't GET ALONG WITH my sister- we have nothing in common. He couldn't get along with his mother-in-law. He gets along well with many different people.
get along/on	to like each other	I was surprised how well my new girlfriend and my sister got along/on.

get around	to avoid a problem	It'll be tricky, but we will find a way to GET AROUND the regulations.
get around	to become known	It didn't take long for the news to GET AROUND once it got into the newspapers.
get around	to have mobility	My grandfather can get around fine in his new wheelchair.
get around	to have personal or sexual relationships with many people	He GETS AROUND a bit; he's always with some new girlfriend.
get around	to persuade, convince	She didn't want to accept my application because it was late, but I managed to GET AROUND her.
get around	to avoid doing something	You can't get around taking this exam, so you better start studying.
get around	to move from place to place	In this city you need a car to get around.
get around	to visit many different places	He GETS AROUND a lot- he's always flying somewhere different.
get around	to walk or go to places	He's finding it hard to GET AROUND since the operation and spends most of his time at home.
get around (to something)	to have a chance/ time to do something	I'm sorry, I haven't gotten around to reviewing your paper yet.
get around to	to finally manage to do something, make the effort to do something	It always takes me ages to GET AROUND to replying to letters.

get at	to be able to reach, find, access	It's on the top shelf and I can't GET AT it.
get at	to criticise	His boss is always GETTING AT him for arriving late.
get at	to imply	What exactly are you trying to get at?
get at	to mean	What do you think she's GETTING AT? I've no idea what she wants. What exactly is he getting at?
get at	to use threats, payments, bribes, etc., to affect someone's testimony or decision	The gangsters GOT AT the jury, who found them not guilty of all charges despite the evidence presented in court.

get away	to escape	The robbers GOT AWAY in a stolen car, which the police later found abandoned. The robbers got away in a black car. The bank robbers got away.
get away	to go on a vacation	We worked so hard this year that we had to get away for a week.
get away	to go on holiday or for a short break	We love to GET AWAY from everything and relax in the country.
get away	to move, leave somewhere	He didn't come because he was stuck at work and couldn't GET AWAY.
get away from	to go somewhere different or do something different	Work's getting on top of me; I need to GET AWAY FROM it.
get away from	to start to talk about something that is not relevant to the discussion	I think we're GETTING AWAY FROM the point here- we need to concentrate on the main ideas.
get away with	to achieve something, despite not doing it correctly or properly	Do you think we could GET AWAY WITH using the cheaper product?
get away with	to escape (punishment)
get away with	to not get caught, criticised or punished for doing something wrong	Thieves GOT AWAY WITH two Picassos, which were never found.
get away with something	to do without being noticed or punished	Jason always gets away with cheating in his maths tests.
get away!	an expression of disbelief	I passed. GET AWAY! You couldn't have passed..

get back	to move away	The police told the crowd to GET BACK to allow the ambulance through.
get back	to return (something)	Don't lend him any money; you'll never GET it BACK. The train was held up so we didn't GET BACK home until midnight. When will you get back? We got back from our vacation last week.
get back	to revenge	He was rude and embarrassed me, but I'll GET him BACK.
get back at	to take revenge	I'll GET BACK AT her for landing me in trouble. He will get back at him someday.
get back at somebody	to retaliate, take revenge	My sister got back at me for stealing her shoes. She stole my favourite hat.
get back at somebody	to punish someone who did something to you	I think he's trying to get back at her for what she said in the meeting.
get back from	We just got back from Egypt.
get back into	to find a new enthusiasm for something	I lost interest for a while, but I'm GETTING BACK INTO it.
get back into	to start doing something after stopping for some time	I am GETTING BACK INTO my Khmer lessons after the summer break.
get back into something	to become interested in something again	I finally got back into my novel and finished it.
get back to	to respond to a contact	I'll GET BACK TO you as soon as I hear any news.
get back to	to respond when you know the answer	I don't know at the moment, but I will GET BACK TO you as soon as I have the information. I will get back to you in a minute.
get back to	to start doing something again after an interruption	It took me ages to GET BACK TO sleep after the phone rang.
get back together	to restart a relationship	We split up a few months ago but GOT BACK TOGETHER last week.
get something back	to receive something you had before	Liz finally got her Science notes back from my room-mate.

get behind	to support, to start to support	All the students GOT BEHIND the teacher. Everyone got behind the plan.
get behind with	to be late paying installments for something	If you GET BEHIND WITH mortgage payments, you might lose your home.

get by	to have just enough money to live on	They're finding it increasingly difficult to GET BY since their daughter was born.
get by	to manage, cope
get by	to not be noticed (problems, errors, etc.)	I had checked it, but there still were a few mistakes that didn't GET BY the editor.
get by	to survive (financially)	It's hard for me to get by on the money I'm making.
get by (on)	to manage to cope or to survive.	It's difficult to get by on a low salary. She can't get by on that much money.
get by on	to manage on a certain amount of money	It's hard to GET BY ON my salary.
get by with	to have enough of something to do the job	We should be able to GET BY WITH three PCs, but four would be better.

get down	to descend, leave a vehicle	The trained pulled in and we GOT DOWN.
get down	to have an affair or sexual relations	They GOT DOWN at the party last week.
get down	to leave the table after eating	When they had finished dinner, the children asked if they could GET DOWN.
get down	to make someone depressed, unhappy, exhausted, etc.	The miserable weather in winter really GETS me DOWN.
get down	to manage to swallow	The medicine tasted horrible and it was difficult to GET it DOWN.
get down	to reduce	The doctor says I my GET my cholesterol levels DOWN.
get down	to write, record	I couldn't GET DOWN everything he said.
get down on	to criticise	My mother used to GET DOWN ON us for not doing enough homework.
get down to	to enjoy something a lot	People were GETTING DOWN TO the concert.
get down to	to start working seriously	I find it extremely difficult to GET DOWN TO doing any revision for examinations.
get down to	to turn one's attention to sth

get enough !

get even	if you get even with someone who has done something bad to you, you do something bad to them	Vinnie's a spiteful kind of guy. Who knows what he might think up to get even (often + with) He swore he'd get even with Lee for humiliating him.
get even (with somebody)	to punish someone who did something to you	She wants to get even with the guy who hit her with the ball.

get in	to arrange for someone to do a job in your home, workplace, etc.	The air conditioning has broken down; we'll have to GET a technician IN to fix it.
get in	to arrive (train, plane, etc.)	Her plane GETS IN at 2 AM our time.
get in	to arrive at work, school, home	I GOT IN late today because the train broke down. She didn't GET IN till well after twelve o'clock because she'd been out for a few drinks with her mates.
get in	o be admitted to a university, club, etc.	He did badly in the entrance exam and didn't GET IN.
get in	to be elected	The government GOT IN with a very small majority.
get in	to bring inside a place	It's raining; I'd better GET the washing IN.
get in	to buy or obtain supplies, like food	We need to GET some coffee IN; we're completely out.
get in	to enter a building or place	I borrowed her pass to GET IN.
get in	to enter (a car or taxi)	The taxi pulled up and we GOT IN. How did the burglar get in?
get in	to manage to say or do	I couldn't GET a word IN throughout the meeting.
get in	to pay for drinks	He GOT the drinks IN.
get in	to submit, apply	We have to GET the forms IN by the end of this week.
get in	to arrive at a place	What time did you say his plane gets in?
get in	to come/arrive; to come home	What time did you get in last night? 2:00 AM.
get in	to do as well as possible without someone or something	Carla said that she just can't manage without Jerry. We just can't manage without some more money.
get in on	to become involved	The company tried to GET IN ON our market.
get in something	to find time to do something	I'd like to get in some skiing while we're in Colorado.
get in with	to become friendly with, ingratiate with	I tried to GET IN WITH them as I thought it would help me at work.
get in(to) the swing of things	to join in with people and their activities; to become more social and up-to-date	Come on, Bill. Try to get into the swing of things. John just couldn't seem to get in the swing of things.
get somebody in(to) something	to manage to get someone enrolled into a school, club, organization, class, etc.; to manage to get someone accepted into something	Somehow, we managed to get Jody into a fine private school. We got her in the group at last! Well, I managed to get myself into the class I wanted.
get somebody in(to) something	to manage to put someone into a confining area or into clothing	I couldn't get Billy into his boots!
get something in(to) somebody	to make something enter someone or something	Get that morphine into her before she goes into shock. Let's get some food into him. He looks starved.
get something in(to) something	to manage to put something into something	I got the notice into tomorrow's newspaper. I will get the replacement battery into the car right away.
get something/somebody in(to) something	to manage to fit someone or something into something	I will try to get you into the beginning of the line. The key is bent, but I think I can get it in. He struggled to get in the key.

get into	to be accepted or admitted	She did well and GOT INTO Cambridge University.
get into	to be small enough to wear something	I couldn't GET INTO the boots; they were too tight.
get into	to become involved in something bad or criminal	He GOT INTO drugs when he was at university.
get into	to become involved or interested	She's been GETTING INTO dance music recently.
get into	to become or be accepted as a member	He GOT INTO the first team for football.
get into	to criticize	He GOT INTO me for doing it badly.
get into	He managed to get himself into the class he wanted.
get into	to start a habit or way of acting or behaving	It took me ages to GET INTO driving on the left.
get into (+ noun)	to enter	How did the burglar get into the house?
get something into a mess	to cause something to become messy or untidy; to cause something to become unmanageable	When he made the spaghetti sauce, he got the kitchen into a real mess. You have got these accounts into a mess!

get it off	to have sex	They GOT IT OFF at the party.
get it off with	to have sex with	She GOT IT OFF WITH her friend's husband.
get off	to disembark (bus, train etc.)
get off	to escape punishment	He GOT OFF on a technicality and left the court a free man.
get off	to finish, leave work	I like to GET OFF early on Fridays.
get off	to help a baby or child sleep	I can't GET the kids OFF because of the noise from next door.
get off	to leave (bus, train, plane)	We GOT OFF the bus and walked to my house. Get off the bus at Trafalgar Square. We have to get off at the next bus stop. (IMPORTANT: With cars and trucks we generally use "to get OUT" - eg. "Sarah got out of the car")
get off	to manage to fire a gun	She GOT OFF a few shots before she was arrested.
get off	to orgasm, have sex	We GOT OFF last night.
get off	to remove from something	She's trying to get off the stain.
get off	to say or write something funny	She GOT OFF some jokes at the start of her presentation.
get off	to start a journey	We need to GET OFF early to avoid the rush hour traffic.
get off	to stop talking on the phone	Let me know when he GETS OFF the phone as I need to make a call.
get off	to write or send letters, messages, etc.	I GOT three emails OFF before the meeting.
get off on	to become excited by	She GETS OFF ON her power over us. He gets off on paying soccer.
get off on	to enjoy a drug	He GETS OFF ON crystal moth every night.
get off with	to have casual sex with	He GOT OFF WITH her at the party.
get off!	don't touch, leave alone	If he bothers you, just tell him where to GET OFF.

get on	to be late or near an arranged time	I must get home now; it's GETTING ON.
get on	to become old, age	He's GETTING ON now and doesn't work so hard.
get on	to board (bus, train, plane)	You can pay when you get on the bus. How are you getting on?
get on	to continue doing something	The teacher asked the pupils to GET ON with some work quietly as she had to leave the classroom.
get on	to enter a bus, train, plane, etc.	We GOT ON the train at Plymouth and went up to London. We got on the train in Paris. (IMPORTANT: With cars and trucks we generally use "to get IN" - eg. "Sarah got in the truck")
get on	to leave	I must be GETTING ON; I have other things to do this evening.
get on	to make progress, deal with something with a reasonable degree of success	How are you GETTING ON with your Spanish lessons?
get on	to continue	I found it hard to get on with my life after my girlfriend left me.
get on	to wear, fit	I have put so much weight on that I couldn't GET my old suits ON.
get on at	to criticise unfairly	He's always GETTING ON AT me when I haven't done anything wrong.
get on for	to be near a time	It's GETTING ON FOR midnight.
get on something	to step onto a vehicle	We're going to freeze out here if you don't let us get on the bus.
get on to	to start to suspect	It took the authorities a long time to GET ON TO the gang.
get on with	to continue or start doing something	She told us to GET ON WITH our work.
get on with	to continue to do something/make progress	Be quiet and get on with your homework.
get on (with)	to have a good relationship	Fortunately, I GET ON WITH my boss. We have always GOT ON well. I need to get on with my homework. How do you get on with Sam?

get onto	appear on the radio or tv	He GOT ONTO every major channel after the accident.
get onto	be elected, appointed	He didn't GET ONTO the committee.
get onto	contact someone because you need or want them to do something	We'd better GET ONTO someone to fix this.
get onto	enter a plane, train, etc.	She GOT ONTO the plane just before it took off.
get onto	start discussing a topic	We didn't GET ONTO the third item on the agenda.

get out	to become known when people want it to remain secret	The truth GOT OUT despite the injunction on reporting the case.
get out	to disembark (car, taxi)
get out	to leave a place, escape	The dog GOT OUT because I left the door open. How did he get out?
get out	to leave the house to visit place and socialize	She doesn't GET OUT much now she has her baby.
get out	to publish, make available for the public to see or buy	We have to GET the report OUT by the end of the month.
get out	to remove dirt or something unwanted	I spilled some red wine on my carpet and can't GET the stains OUT.
get out	to remove something from where it is stored to use it	I GOT the car OUT so that we could load up the suitcases.
get out	to say what you want when it is difficult	He was so upset he couldn't GET the words OUT.
get out of	to avoid doing something you dislike	I said I wasn't feeling well and GOT OUT OF the extra work.
get out of	to derive pleasure or benefit from something	She's GETTING a lot OUT OF her university course.
get out of	to help someone avoid doing something	I GOT him OUT OF having to work at the weekend.
get out of	to leave a car, van, etc.	We GOT OUT OF the taxi and paid the driver.
get out of	to make someone confess or tell the truth	The police couldn't GET any information OUT OF him.
get out of	to make someone give something to you	Did you GET a refund OUT OF the travel agency?
get out of	to stop a regular activity or habit	If you GET OUT OF a routine, it can be hard to start again.
get out of (+noun)	to leave	How did he get out of the house?
get out of (+verb)	to avoid doing something	Some husbands manage to get out of doing any housework.
get out!	expression of disbelief	'I got 100% on the test.' 'Get out!'.
get somebody out !
get the kinks (ironed) out	to fix a problem associated with something	The actors had to get the kinks out before they were ready to present the play to an audience. That'll be a right nice car, when you get the kinks ironed out in the engine.
get the wrinkles out	to eliminate some initial, minor problems with an invention, a procedure, a computer program, or a mechanical device	I need more time working with this system to get the wrinkles out.
get the wrinkles out	to remove the wrinkles from fabric by ironing or flattening in some way	This has been packed in my suitcase for a week, and I know I'll never be able to get the wrinkles out of it.

get over	to be shocked or surprised that something if real or true	I couldn't GET OVER how much weight he had put on.
get over	to come somewhere	He said he needed help and ask me to GET OVER as soon as I could.
get over	to communicate, make people understand	He makes jokes to help GET his message OVER.
get over	to get to the other side	We couldn't GET OVER the river because of the floods.
get over	to recover from (illness, disappointment, upset)	Charlie had the 'flu but he got over it. I just got over the flu and now my sister has it.
get over	to recover from something, feel better	It took me ages to GET OVER the bout of flu. It took him a long time to get over the heart attack.
get over	to solve, find a solution	It took us a long time to GET OVER the problems with the computer system.
get over	to accept/stop thinking about	I can't get over the fact that she left me.
get over something	to overcome a problem	The company will have to close if it can't get over the new regulations.
get over with	to do something unpleasant that has to be done rather than delaying it any more	I GOT the test OVER WITH rather than have to worry about it any longer.

get of something !
get of something/somebody !
get the drift of something	to understand the general idea of something	I knew enough German to get the drift of this article. I don't get the drift of what you're trying to tell me.

get round	to become known	I don't want this to GET ROUND, so please keep it to yourself.
get round	to find a solution	We're nearly ready, but there are few little problems we have to GET ROUND before we finish.
get round (around) to	to finally manage to do something	It always takes me ages to GET ROUND to writing letters. (In American English 'around' is used).
get round (or around)	to persuade someone	She didn't want to let me do it, but I succeeded in GETTING ROUND her. (In American English 'around' is used).
get round to something	to finally find time to do (N.Amer.: get around to something)	I don't know when I am going to get round to writing the thank you cards.

get through	to arrive	The message didn't GET THROUGH.
get through	to be accepted or passed (laws, proposals, etc.)	If the proposal GETS THROUGH, it'll make things much better for us.
get through	to consume	He GETS THROUGH two bottles of wine a day.
get through	to contact	I tried calling her mobile phone, but I couldn't GET THROUGH. I tried calling you, but I couldn't get through. I rang but couldn't GET THROUGH TO her.
get through	to endure or deal with a difficult experience	We will have to be careful with our money to GET THROUGH the month.
get through	to finish	I'm going to take some work home because I haven't managed to GET THROUGH it all today. Call me when you GET THROUGH.
get through	to help someone or something succeed or pass a test or exam	My teacher GOT me THROUGH the exam.
get through	to manage to pass	The water GOT THROUGH the roof and damaged the carpets.
get through	to pass (an exam); be connected on the phone
get through	to succeed in an exam or test	My car didn't GET THROUGH its inspection.
get through to	to make someone understand	I explained it carefully, but I just couldn't GET THROUGH TO him.
get through to	to reach a stage in a competition	If they win, they'll GET THROUGH TO the quarter finals.
get through with	I'll get through with school in late May.

get to	to annoy, irritate	Don't let her GET TO you; she's just in a bad mood.
get to	to arrive	When I GET TO it, I'll look at the matter carefully.
get to	to reach
get to	to start discussing a topic	We asked him to GET TO the point, but he just waffled away.
get to first base	(American & Australian informal) to begin to have success with something that you want to do (Usage notes: First base is the first place a player must run to after they hit the ball in a game of baseball)	They won't even get to first base with the directors with a proposal like that.
get to first base	(mainly American humorous) to get to the first stage of a sexual relationship, where partners kiss and touch each other	Jimmy hasn't even gotten to first base yet with his girlfriend.
get to first base	to begin to have success, esp	in the early stages of something They won't even get to first base with the directors if they propose something like that.
get to first base	to talk to someone in order to find out how they are or what they think about something (usually + with)	I had a really good time in Paris. I touched base with some old friends and made a few new ones.
get to first base (with something/somebody)	to make a major advance with someone or something	I wish I could get to first base with this business deal. John adores Sally, but he can't even reach first base with her. She won't even speak to him.

get together	to meet (usually for social reasons)	Let's get together for a BBQ this weekend.
get together	to meet each other	Let's get together for lunch one day.
get together	to meet socially	We GOT TOGETHER in the pub for a drink.

get up	to get out of bed	I GET UP at seven o'clock on weekdays, but lie in till noon at the weekend. I got up early today to study for my exam.
get up	to organize	They GOT UP a list of two hundred people who were opposed to the local council's plans.
get up	to rise/leave from bed after sleeping	I usually get up at 7 o'clock.
get up	to stand	You should get up and give the elderly man your seat.
get up	to wake up and get out of bed	What time to did you get up this morning? Today I got up at 10 am.
get up to	to do something wrong or naughty	The children are always GETTING UP TO some trouble or other.

get with !

get/go beyond !

giggle at !

give away	to betray, report to authorities	The gang GAVE him AWAY to the police.
give away	to distribute something for free	In this issue of the magazine, they are GIVING AWAY a free DVD.
give away	to entrust your daughter to her husband through the marriage ceremony	He GAVE his daughter AWAY and told the groom to look after her.
give away	to give a weight advantage to an opponent in boxing	He is GIVING AWAY thirty pounds to the challenger.
give away	to give an advantage to your opponent in a sport by making a mistake, playing badly, etc.	They GAVE AWAY two goals in the first half.
give away	to give an unwanted baby to people to bring up	She had to GIVE her baby AWAY as she couldn't afford to bring it up.
give away	to give without asking for or expecting payment	He decided to GIVE his new album AWAY in a magazine.
give away	to tell a secret, often unintentionally	She didn't GIVE anything AWAY about the party so it came as a complete surprise to me. He gave his car away to his brother. Don't give the answer away.
give away	to give something for free	When Nancy found out she was moving, she gave away all her furniture.
give away	to reveal	There's no point in going out to see that movie - Nancy gave away the ending yesterday.
give away something; give something away

give back	to return something that someone has lost	Nothing could GIVE me BACK the way I felt before the scandal.
give back	to return something you've borrowed	I GAVE the money BACK that she'd lent to me.
give back something; give something back

give cause for something	to serve as a just cause for something; to warrant something	Your comments give cause for further investigation. I didn't give cause for you to worry so much.

give chase (to something/somebody)	to chase someone or something	The dogs gave chase to the fox. A mouse ran by, but the cat was too tired to give chase.

give in	to offer or submit for judgment, approval	They GAVE IN their complaint to the court.
give in	to reluctantly stop fighting or arguing	My boyfriend didn't want to go to the ballet, but he finally gave in.
give in	to stop doing something because it's too hard or requires too much energy	I couldn't finish the crossword puzzle and had to GIVE IN and look at the answers.
give in	to submit homework, etc.	The projects have to be GIVEN IN three weeks before we break up for the end of term.
give in	to surrender, accept defeat	They GAVE IN when the police surrounded the building. Why does she always give in to her brother?
give in	to stop trying (to fight something)	Tom gave in to his parents' pressure and became a doctor.
give in to	to agree to something you don't like	The government says it will not GIVE IN TO terrorists.
give in to	to allow a feeling or desire to control you	Eventually, I GAVE IN TO my anger and screamed at them.
give in/into	I won't give into his complaining.

give of	to contribute without expecting anything in return, usually time or money	He GIVES OF his free time to help the club.

give off	to behave in a way that makes people think of you in a certain way	She GIVES OFF an air of nobility.
give off	to emit pollution or something else unpleasant	The police stopped the van because it was GIVING OFF a lot of black smoke.
give off	to expand	The company is GIVING OFF all over the country.
give off	to follow or take one of 2 or more branches (instructions, in machine code) in writing a computer program (using system software for a programming language)	A particular application of a processing code can be GIVEN OFF while requiring minimal run-time support.
give off	to release (a smell, a light)	That yellow flower gives off a wonderful smell.

give onto	to open into a place, for a door or window	The French windows GIVE ONTO the lawn.

give out	to distribute	Somebody was GIVING leaflets OUT in front of the underground station.
give out	to emit	The factory GIVES OUT a lot of fumes.
give out	to end or finish somewhere	The path GIVES OUT halfway around the lake.
give out	to have no more of a supply	The water GAVE OUT after a week in the desert.
give out	to make a sound or noise	She GAVE OUT a moan.
give out	to make public	They GAVE the names of the winners OUT last night.
give out	to read the wordings of a hymn or psalm aloud for congregational singing	He GAVE OUT the psalm.
give out	to stop working, through age or overuse	I'd been having trouble with my laptop and it finally GAVE OUT at the weekend.
give something out	to give to many people (usually at no cost)	They were giving out free perfume samples at the department store.

give over	to entrust, pass on responsibility	We've GIVEN the premises OVER to the new company.
give over	to stop an activity	The police told the rioters to GIVE OVER.
give over	to stop doing something bad or annoying	They were making a lot of noise so I told them to GIVE OVER.
give over to	to dedicate, devote	He GAVE himself OVER TO finding his son.
give over to	to transfer responsibility	After her death, they GAVE control of the estate OVER TO her niece.
give over!	an expression of disbelief	They've doubled your salary- GIVE OVER!.

give somebody away	to reveal hidden information about someone	His wife gave him away to the police.
give somebody away	to take the bride to the altar	My father gave me away at my wedding.
give something away	to give something to someone for free	The library was giving away old books on Friday.
give something away	to ruin a secret	My little sister gave the surprise party away by accident.

give something back	to return a borrowed item	I have to give these skates back to Franz before his hockey game.

give something down !

give something up	to quit a habit	I am giving up smoking as of January 1st.
give up	to allow or give away a run while pitching (baseball)	He has GIVEN UP 14 earned runs in 14 innings.
give up	to allow someone to sit in your chair, take your place, etc.	I GAVE UP my seat to a pregnant woman.
give up
give up	to sacrifice or dedicate time, etc, to something	I GAVE UP all my free time to the project.
give up	to stop being friendly, end relationships	She GAVE UP all her school friends when she went to university. Are you sure you want to give up your career?
give up	to stop doing something	I have GIVEN UP trying to help them. Sarah gave up smoking five years ago.
give up	to stop doing something that has been a habit	I GAVE UP taking sugar in tea and coffee to lose weight.
give up	to stop trying	My maths homework was too difficult so I gave up.
give up	to surrender, concede, stop trying, etc.	I can't think of the answer; I GIVE UP. You should always keep trying. Don't give up!
give up on	to lose faith in or stop believing in something or someone	I GAVE UP ON them when I heard what they were saying about me behind my back.
give up on	to stop feeling hope	I have GIVEN UP ON them; they never do what they promise.
give up to	to denounce, report to authorities	He GAVE his accomplices UP TO the police.

give to something !

give way to	to allow a vehicle to pass in front	You must GIVE WAY TO oncoming traffic.
give way to	to be replaced by something better, cheaper, more modern, etc.	Cottage industries GAVE WAY TO the big companies.
give way to	to relinquish position or ascendancy	Night GIVES WAY TO day.
give way to	to surrender to strong emotions	He GAVE WAY TO his anger and started screaming at them.
give way to	to yield, surrender, retreat	Don't GIVE WAY TO your worst fears about this.

give/hand something to somebody on !

glad of

glance around (some place)	to look quickly around some place	He glanced around the room, looking for his favorite cap. Mary glanced around, looking for her friend.

glance at something/somebody	to look quickly at someone or something	Sharon glanced at Todd to see if he looked as if he was ready to go. I glanced at my watch and realized how long all this had taken.

glance back	to look quickly at someone who is behind you	Dan glanced back at the man chasing him and ran on even faster. He glanced back and ran faster.
glance back	to look quickly at someone who is looking at you	He glanced back at Mary, so he could remember her smile. She hoped he would notice her but he never even glanced back.

glance down (at something)	to look quickly downward at something	Sherri glanced down at her watch and then pressed on the accelerator. She glanced down and hurried off.

glance off (something/somebody)	to bounce off someone or something	The bullet glanced off the huge boulder. The baseball glanced off of Tom and left a bruise on his side where it had touched.

glance over (something/somebody)	to examine someone or something very quickly	I only glanced over the papers. They look okay to me. The doctor glanced over the injured woman and called for an ambulance. My teacher just glanced over my homework today.

glance through something	to look quickly at the contents of something	I glanced through the manuscript, and I don't think it is ready yet. Would you glance through this report when you have a moment?

glare at something/somebody	to scowl at someone or something	Don't glare at me! I glared at the cat and thought mean thoughts.

glare down on something/somebody	[for someone] to scowl down at someone or something	The judge glared down on the accused. I glared down on the cat, which ignored me, as usual.
glare down on something/somebody	[for the sun] to burn down brightly on someone or something	The sun glared down on the beach and made the sand hot to the touch. The bright sun glared down on the desert rocks.

glaze over	[for one's eyes] to assume a dull, bored appearance, signifying an inability to concentrate or a lack of sleep	My eyes glaze over when I hear all those statistics.
glaze over	[for something] to be covered over with a coat of something cloudy or ice	The roads glazed over and became very dangerous. The street is glazed over badly.

glean something from something	and glean something from someone	to figure something out from bits of gossip. I was able to glean some important news from Tommy. Tell me the news you gleaned from the people in town.
glean something from something	to gather the leftovers of something from something; to gather the ears of grain left in a field after a harvest	The poor people gleaned their entire living from what was left in the fields. We will have to go out and glean something from the fields.

glide across something	to float or slide across something	The skaters glided across the frozen expanse of the river. The small plane glided across the sky.

glide away (from something/somebody)	to slide or float away from someone or something	The skaters glided away from the center of the rink. The canoes glided away from the judge who had started off the canoe race.

glint with something	to sparkle or shine with something	Her bright eyes glinted with the sunlight. The crystal goblet glinted with the orange firelight.

gloat over something	to rejoice smugly over something; to be glad that something unfortunate has happened to someone else	He gloated over his good luck in a way that made all of us angry. Please don't gloat over my misfortune.

glory in something	a time in the past when someone or something was very successful	The book focusses on the glory days of the jazz scene in the early 1940's and 1950's.
glory in something	to be very pleased or proud about something	Her parents gloried in her success as an artist.
glory in something	to kill someone	One shot sent him to glory. You want me to send you to glory or something?
glory in something	to officiate at the burial services for someone	The preacher sent him to glory amidst the sobs of his relatives. The preacher probably gets fifty bucks for every stiff he sends to glory.
glory in something	to take great pleasure in something; to revel in something	He just glories in all the attention he is getting. Martha tends to glory in doing things just exactly right.

gloss over	to try to minimize the importance of something	The Minister tried to GLOSS OVER the report that was critical of her department.
gloss over something	to cover up, minimize, or play down something bad	Don't gloss over your own role in this fiasco! I don't want to gloss this matter over, but it really isn't very important, is it?
gloss over something	to fail to deal with the importance of something (Usage notes: usually said about a problem or fault)	The report praised the managers but glossed over the high cost of the project. The State Department's reports for the period glossed over the worst human-rights problems in the region.

glow with something	[for someone's face, eyes, etc.] to display some quality, such as pride, pleasure, rage, health	Her healthy face glowed with pride. Her eyes glowed with a towering rage.
glow with something	[for something] to put out light, usually because of high heat	The embers glowed with the remains of the fire. The last of the coals still glowed with fire.

glower at something/somebody	to scowl intently at someone or something	The judge glowered at the irate witness until order was restored. Fred glowered at the painting of his uncle, hating the subject of the picture.

glue something down	to fix something down onto something with cement	Glue the edge of the rug down before someone trips over it. You should glue down the rug.

glue something on(to) something	to attach something to something else with cement	Please glue the binding onto this book. Someone pulled it off. Please glue on the binding.

glue something together	to attach the pieces of something together with glue	She glued the pieces of the model plane together. She glued together all the loose pieces.

glued to something	following someone everywhere; very close to or touching something	His little sister was glued to him all afternoon. Finally he sent her home.
glued to something	giving something your full attention	During football season, he's glued to the TV. She has her ears glued to her CD player all the time.
glued to something	if you are glued to the spot, you cannot move, usually because you are very shocked or frightened I stood there rooted to the spot as he came nearer and nearer.

glut something/somebody with something	to overfill someone or something with something	The hungry lions glutted themselves with the meat of their recent kill. Sally would glut herself with doughnuts, given the chance.

gnaw (away) at somebody	to worry someone; to create constant anxiety in someone	The thought of catching some horrible disease gnawed away at her. A lot of guilt gnawed at him day and night.
gnaw (away) at something/somebody	to chew at someone or something	I hear a mouse gnawing away at the wall. The mosquitoes are gnawing at me something awful.
gnaw at	to harm gradually	The government's dishonesty has GNAWED AT people's trust in politicians.
gnaw at	to trouble, worry or annoy someone	I know it was wrong and guilt has GNAWED AT me ever since I did it.
gnaw away at	to harm gradually	Their behavior GNAWED AWAY AT our trust in them.

gnaw on something	to chew on something (Usually said of an animal)	The puppy has been gnawing on my slippers! This slipper has been gnawed on!

go (a)round in !

go (right) through somebody	[for something] to be excreted very soon after being eaten; [for something] to go immediately through the alimentary canal of a person (Use with discretion)	No, thanks. This stuff just goes right through me. The coffee went through me like a dose of salts.

go about	to circulate	A rumor is GOING ABOUT involving the Attorney General.
go about	to deal with something	How should I GO ABOUT telling her the bad news?

go across	to move to another side or place	He WENT ACROSS to the opposition.

go after	to chase, try to get	The cat WENT AFTER the pigeon, but it flew away.
go after somebody	to follow someone	My brother tried to go after the thief in his car. He went after the man who mugged him.
go after something	to try to achieve something	I went after my dream and now I am a published writer.

go against	to be contrary to (principles, rules)
go against	to lose a decision or a verdict of a court	If the decision GOES AGAINST me, I'll go bankrupt.
go against somebody	to compete, oppose	We are going against the best soccer team in the city tonight.

go ahead	to start, proceed	The construction of the bypass WENT AHEAD despite the protests from environmentalists. We now intend to GO AHEAD WITH the final stage of the project. Please go ahead and eat before the food gets cold.

go along
go along with	to accept a decision or suggestion	I didn't really agree, but I WENT ALONG WITH the decision because I was in the minority.
go along with	to take the same view

go ape	to become very angry	Vicky'll go ape when she sees this mess.
go ape	to become very excited or angry (Usage notes: also used in the form go apeshit, which has the same meaning but is considered rude slang)	Did you go ape over Tim's latest film, or did you just get disgusted, like me?
go ape	to become very excited over something	I just go ape over chocolate. Sam went ape over Mary.

go around	to be or have enough of something	There aren't enough jobs to GO AROUND for the numbers of people graduating nowadays.
go around	to circulate	A rumor is GOING AROUND about the Attorney General. There's not enough milk to go around.
go around	to visit	I WENT AROUND for dinner at their house.

go at	to attack or approach something with vigor	She WENT AT her dinner like she hadn't eaten for days.

go away	to depart
go away	to leave a place or disappear	This drug should make the pain GO AWAY. Please go away! I told him to go away, but he wouldn't leave.

go back	to have a long history	He and I GO BACK a long way- we were at school together.
go back
go back	to return to a place	I have to go back home and get my lunch. I'll never go back.
go back on	to break a promise	The government has GONE BACK ON their promise not to raise taxes.

go before	to precede	We can't ignore what has GONE BEFORE and pretend that everything has been OK.
go below	to leave the top deck of a ship	The captain told the passengers to GO BELOW when the storm started.

go blank	to become unconscious (Usage notes: sometimes used in the form everything went blank (someone became unconscious))	He remembers trying to get up, and then he went blank until he woke up the next morning with a roaring headache. I heard a noise behind me, and then everything went blank. Related vocabulary: black out.

go by	to pay a short visit, call	Nobody was at home when I WENT BY yesterday.
go by	the passing of time	Ten years WENT BY before we saw each other again.
go by	to trust or depend on for correct information	Don't GO BY my watch; it's usually a bit slow.

go down	to be eaten or swallowed	The medicine WENT DOWN easily.
go down	to be received by people, in terms of their reaction	My joke WENT DOWN very badly.
go down	to be sent to prison	He WENT DOWN for ten years for armed robbery.
go down	to become dimmer	The lights WENT DOWN and the audience stopped talking.
go down	to become less; decrese in price; sink (ship); set (sun)
go down	to become recorded as or known as	It WENT DOWN as the worst day in the history of the company.
go down	to decrease, get smaller	The price of scanners has GONE DOWN recently.
go down	to fall to the ground	The boxer WENT DOWN in the second round.
go down	to happen, take place	The police thought that a big crime was GOING DOWN that night.
go down	to sink	The Titanic WENT DOWN after it hit an iceberg on its maiden voyage.
go down	to stop working, especially computers	The computer system WENT DOWN for an hour last night.
go down	to sunset	The sun WENT DOWN at seven o'clock.
go down on	to perform oral sex	He WENT DOWN ON her.
go down to	to be defeated	Chelsea WENT DOWN TO Arsenal in a thrilling game.
go down with	to fall ill	She WENT DOWN WITH a virus.
go down with	to find acceptance	Do you think the scheme will GO DOWN WITH the farmers in the area?

go for	to attack	The neighbor's dog WENT FOR the postman and bit him.
go for	to be attracted to	She tends to GO FOR guys like him.
go for	to choose, select	I'll GO FOR the soup of the day, followed by the duck.
go for	to have something favorable	The play didn't have much GOING FOR IT and we left halfway through.
go for	to pass for or serve as	It's a couch that also GOES FOR a bed.
go for	to pick up, go and get
go for	to try to get	The player WENT FOR the ball but missed.

go forth	to leave a place	He WENT FORTH and found a wife in another city.
go forth	to travel abroad, leave a place	They WENT FORTH to spread the word of the new religion.

go forward	to move clocks ahead	The clocks MOVE FORWARD an hour on Sunday.
go forward	to progress	The top three teams GO FORWARD to the next round. They went in after us.

go in	to attack	The troops WENT IN at dawn.
go in	to disappear, become obscured by a cloud	The sun has GONE IN.
go in	to fit	The cable GOES IN here.
go in	to go to hospital for treatment, surgery, etc.	He WENT IN for a triple bypass operation two days ago.
go in for	to enter a competition or sit an exam	He WENT IN FOR the photography prize, but didn't win.
go in for	to like, have an interest in	He GOES IN FOR classical music.
go in for	to make a career choice	Have you thought about GOING IN FOR teaching?
go in for	to support, advocate	I don't GO IN FOR the claims being made about blogging.
go in with	to form a union or alliance	They're going to GO IN WITH the Social Democrats.
go in with	to join, enter	Ask the other to GO IN WITH them on the plan.

go into	to be contained in a larger number	Five GOES INTO sixty 12 times.
go into	to be dedicated or devoted	A lot of time and effort WENT INTO this book.
go into	to begin a speech or description	He WENT INTO a long attack on the way press had handled the issue.
go into	to discuss in some detail	They refused to GO INTO exactly what was wrong.
go into	to enter a profession, hospital, trade, market	She WENT INTO banking after she'd finished university.

go alone !

go near (to) something/somebody	to approach someone or something	Don't go near Sue. She's got chicken pox. Now, don't go near the water!

go off	to explode (bomb), start ringing (alarm); explode; deteriorate (food); begin to sound (alarm)	The bomb could go off at any moment. The bomb went off. My party went off as planned. The fire alarm WENT OFF because someone was smoking in the toilets.
go off	to go bad	The milk WENT OFF because I forgot to put it in the fridge.
go off	to leave a place	Please don't GO OFF until we have sorted this out.
go off	to start to dislike	I WENT OFF her when she lied to me.
go off	to stop working (electric/electronic equipment)	The lights GO OFF automatically when the office is empty.
go off	to take place, follow a plan or pattern	The party WENT OFF well.
go off	to start (signal, alarm, warning siren, etc.)	My alarm went off at 7:00 AM but I just couldn't get up.
go off with	to elope, run away with someone	She WENT OFF WITH her friend's husband. I guess she went off with her new boyfriend.
go off with	to steal	He WENT OFF WITH my credit cards.

go on	to be guided	The investigators have no clues to GO ON.
go on	to be nearly a certain period of time	It's GOING ON ten years since we met.
go on	to continue	He WENT ON and ON talking and I was so bored. Go on, tell me the rest of the story.
go on	to happen	There are loads of people out in the street; what's GOING ON?
go on	to progress	They asked me how the project was GOING ON. Will you go on working?
go on	to spend money	Most of my salary GOES ON my mortgage repayments.
go on	to start doing or taking something	She WENT ON the pill when she met him.
go on	to start working (electric/electronic equipment)	The alarm GOES ON when you close the front door.
go on about	to talk too much	He's always GOING ON ABOUT his kids.
go on at	to pester; try to make someone do something by repeatedly asking or suggesting	He WENT ON AT his parents until they bought him the game.
go on to	to proceed	We had dinner and WENT ON TO a few bars.
go on with (something)	to continue doing	Please GO ON WITH your work.
go on!	a way of encouraging someone	GO ON! Apply for the job.

go out	to be eliminated in a competition	England WENT OUT in the second round.
go out	to be sent	The newsletter WENT OUT last night.
go out	to be transmitted	The item WENT OUT on the news yesterday.
go out	to become unfashionable	That sort of tie WENT OUT last year.
go out	to go on strike	The workers WENT OUT for more money.
go out	to intend	I didn't GO OUT to offend them.
go out	to leave a place	He WENT OUT last night.
go out	to leave home to go on a social event	We're going out for dinner tonight.
go out	to move backwards, of a tide	The tide GOES OUT in the evening.
go out	to stop burning, be extinguished	The candle WENT OUT and left us in darkness.
go out	to leave the house (and partake in social activities - bar, club, restaurant, etc.)	My cousin loves to party. She goes out every night.
go out	to stop burning (a fire)	After the fire went out, it became very cold.
go out (with)	Will she go out with Mike next Friday evening?
go out for	to become a candidate, apply for something	She WENT OUT FOR a place on the team.
go out to	to feel sympathy with someone	Our condolences GO OUT TO all the families who have lost people in this tragic accident.
go out with	to have a romantic relationship with. To be boyfriend and girlfriend	He's been GOING OUT WITH his girlfriend for around six months now. Is she really going out with him?
go out with somebody	to date	Jesse has been going out with Luke since they met last winter.

go over	to be approved or accepted	My plans WENT OVER well.
go over	to clean	I WENT OVER the living room with the vacuum cleaner before they arrived.
go over	to inspect the details of sth
go over	to look at something, revise	We WENT OVER our notes before the exam.
go over	to repeat or explain	Could you GO OVER that point again, please?
go over	to review	Let's go over your test.
go over	to visit	I hadn't seen her for a while, so I WENT OVER on Friday night.
go over	to visit someone nearby	I haven't seen Tina for a long time. I think I'll go over for an hour or two.
go over something	to review	Please go over your answers before you submit your test.
go over something with !
go over to	to become converted	She WENT OVER TO Islam when she was living in the Middle East.
go over to	to change to something different	I used to drink beer but I have GONE OVER TO wine.
go over to	to go on a journey	I'm GOING OVER TO Hong Kong next month.

go past	to pass without stopping	She WENT PAST me without saying hello.

go round	to be or have enough of something	There aren't enough jobs to GO ROUND for the numbers of people graduating nowadays.
go round	to circulate	There's a nasty rumor GOING ROUND about them.
go round	to visit (informally)	I WENT ROUND last night to see them.

go through	to be approved formally or sanctioned	My divorce WENT THROUGH last week.
go through	to consume or spend	We WENT THROUGH a fortune on our holiday.
go through	to deal with; discuss in detail; experience sth (usually bad)
go through	to do something in a certain way or following certain procedures	You must GO THROUGH the proper channels to get the approval.
go through	to enter	They said I could GO THROUGH the exam room.
go through	to examine, search	I WENT THROUGH my desk looking for the letter.
go through	to experience	You wouldn't believe what I WENT THROUGH when I was ill! Pete went through a lot of pain after the accident.
go through	to explain	He WENT THROUGH his ideas twice but I couldn't really understand them.
go through	if you like someone or something in small doses, you only like them for short periods She's all right in small doses but I wouldn't want to spend a whole lot of time with her.
go through	if you take what someone says with a pinch of salt, you do not completely believe it You have to take everything she says with a pinch of salt	She has a tendency to exaggerate. It's interesting to read the reports in the newspapers, but I tend to take them with a grain of salt.
go through	to perform or carry something out	I WENT THROUGH my work in a daze after I heard the news.
go through	to read again	I WENT THROUGH my notes before the exam.
go through	The truck wouldn't go through the tunnel. He went through his pockets, looking for his wallet. You won't believe what I've gone through. I guess we need to go through the whole song a few more times.
go through	to be approved; to succeed in getting through the approval process	I sent the board of directors a proposal. I hope it goes through. We all hope that the new law goes through.
go through	to be officially accepted or approved	We're hoping that the proposal for the new mall won't go through.
go through somebody	to travel through someone's body; to go (right) through someone	That medicine went right through me.
go through somebody	to work through someone; to use someone as an intermediary	I can't give you the permission you seek. You will have to go through our main office. I have to go through the treasurer for all expenditures.
go through something	to experience or endure something	You can't believe what I've gone through. Mary has gone through a lot lately.
go through something	to pass through various stages or processes	The pickles went through a number of processes before they were packed. Johnny is going through a phase where he wants everything his way.
go through something	to rehearse something; to practice something for performance	They went through the second act a number of times. We need to go through the whole play a few more times.
go through something	to search through something	She went through his pants pockets, looking for his wallet. He spent quite a while going through his desk, looking for the papers.
go through something	to use up all of something rapidly	We have gone through all the aspirin again! How can you go throughyour allowance so fast?
go through something	to work through something, such as an explanation or story	I went through my story again, carefully and in great detail. I would like to go through it again, so I can be sure to understand it.
go through something	[for something] to pass through an opening	The piano wouldn't go through the door. Do you think that such a big truck can go through the tunnel under the river?
go through something/somebody	[for something sharp] to penetrate someone or something	The sword went through the knight cleanly and quickly. The nail went through all three boards.
go through with	to do or complete something you've agreed to	He did promise, but I doubt that he'll GO THROUGH WITH it.

go to !

go together	to harmonize or be compatible	Drinking and driving don't GO TOGETHER.

go towards	to contribute	The money WENT TOWARDS my university fees.

go under	to go bankrupt	Many small shops are GOING UNDER because they cannot compete with the supermarkets.
go under
go under	to lose consciousness	She WENT UNDER a few minutes after they administered the anesthetic.
go under	to sink	The ship WENT UNDER in a heavy storm. I was afraid that our ship would go under. The company went under.

go up	to approach	We WENT UP and asked them for some information about the courses.
go up	to be built	Skyscrapers are GOING UP everywhere in the city centre.
go up	to be heard	A huge cheer WENT UP when the president arrived.
go up	to be promoted	The top three teams GO UP at the end of the season.
go up	to increase in price; explode
go up	to rise or climb	The price of petrol has GONE UP sharply because of the increase in duty in the Government's budget.
go up to	to approach	She WENT UP TO him and asked him if he wanted a drink.
go up to	to attend a university	She WENT UP TO Cambridge after she finished secondary school.
go up to	to reach	The book only GOES UP TO the start of the Second World War.

go with	to accept, agree to	We're GOING WITH our original plan in the end.
go with	to accompany	A lot of benefits GO WITH the job.
go with	to combine nicely	Does this tie GO WITH my shirt?
go with	to date, have a relationship with	She's been GOING WITH him since she was at university.
go with	to match
go with (something/somebody)	to depart in the company of someone or a group	Jim's not here. He went with the last busload. I'm leaving now. Do you want to go with?

go without	to cope without having something	They're not coming, so we'll have to GO WITHOUT their help.
go without	to not have	I had to GO WITHOUT lunch today because I didn't have any time. I just cannot go without some candy from time to time.
go without something	to suffer lack or deprivation	When I was young, we went without winter boots.

goad somebody into something	to urge or coerce someone into doing something	Don't try to goad me into it. I just won't do it! We goaded Mary into going with us.

goad somebody on	to urge someone onward, possibly with jeers or challenges; to urge someone to continue (Usually in this order)	The cheering crowd goaded the team on to victory. I goaded Jed on to taking the risk.

gobble something down	to eat something very fast, swallowing large chunks	The dog gobbled the meat down in seconds. The cat gobbled down the sardines.

gobble something up	to use up, buy up, or occupy all of something	The shoppers gobbled all the sale merchandise up in a few hours. They gobbled up everything.
gobble something/somebody up	to eat someone or something completely and rapidly	The wolf said that he was going to gobble the little girl up. The wolf wanted to gobble up the little pig.

goof around	to fool around, not be serious	We spent the weekend GOOFING AROUND.
goof around	to act silly	The kids were all goofing around, waiting for the bus. Stop goofing around!

goof off	to confused; distraught	I'm sort of goofed up today. I think I'm coming down with something. I was up too late last night, and now I'm all goofed up.
goof off	to avoid or leave work	We GOOFED OFF for the afternoon to watch the match. She spent most of the school day goofing off with her friends.
goof off	to messed up; out of order	All my papers are goofed up. Everything on my desk is goofed. Who's been here?
goof off	to waste time	John is always goofing off. Quit goofing off and get to work!

goof on somebody	to make jokes about someone	She doesn't goof on old people, but her characters are certainly older and very odd.
goof on somebody	to tease or kid someone	I don't believe you. I think you're just goofing on me.

goof something/somebody up	to mess someone or something up; to ruin someone's plans; to make something nonfunctional	Who goofed this machine up? Who goofed up the machine?
goof up	to mess, spoil	They GOOFED UP our plans.
goof up (on something)	to make an error with something; to blunder while doing something	Please don't goof up on this job. If you goof up one more time, you're finished.

gorge oneself on something	to eat something to the point of fullness	Don't gorge yourself on the snacks. Dinner is in ten minutes. You have gorged yourself with cheese! No wonder you're not hungry. Claire gorged herself on the doughnuts that Fred bought.

gorge something/somebody with something	to fill someone or something by eating something	She gorged the dog with canned food. The puppy gorged itself with all the hamburger Paul had set out to thaw.

gossip about something/somebody	to talk maliciously about someone or something	Who are you gossiping about now? They are gossiping about what happened last weekend.

gouge something out of somebody	to cheat someone out of something (Compare this with chisel something out of someone)	They gouged the money out of the old man. The crooks gouged the life savings out of the old lady.
gouge something out of something	to scoop or chisel something out of something	Tom gouged a horrible furrow out of the wood of the piano bench. He gouged out a horrible scratch.

grab at something/somebody	to grasp quickly at someone or something; to try to seize someone or something	He grabbed at me, but I got away unscathed. I grabbed at the rope, but missed. The teacher grabbed for the little boy and held him.

grab on (to something/somebody)	to grasp someone or something; to hold onto someone or something	Here, grab onto this rope! Grab on and hold tight.

grab something/somebody away (from something/somebody)	to snatch someone or something away from someone or something	Harry's aunt grabbed the dirty candy away from him before he got it in his mouth. I grabbed away the meat from the dog.

grace something with something	to adorn something or some place with something, especially a person's presence	The lovely lady graced our home with her presence. The stage was graced with flowers and a few palm trees.
grace something/somebody with one's presence	to honor someone or something with one's presence	"How nice of you to grace us with your presence," Mr. Wilson told Mary sarcastically as she entered the classroom late. The banquet was graced with the presence of the governor.

graced with something	made elegant by means of some ornament or decoration	The altar was graced with lovely white flowers. The end of the beautiful day was graced with a beautiful sunset.

grade somebody down (on something)	to give someone a low ranking, rating, or score on some performance	I had to grade you down on your essay because of your spelling. Please don't grade me down for a minor mistake.

graduate (in something) (with something)	to earn a degree in some subject with honors, etc.	I graduated in math with highest honors. Sharon graduated with honors in medicine.

graduate from (a place)

graft something on(to) something	to splice a living part onto another living part	The gardener grafted a red rose onto the stem of another species. The gardener grafted on a red rose.

grant something to somebody	to give or award something to someone	The foundation granted a large sum of money to Jane for her research. They granted an award to Kelly.

grapple (with somebody) (for something)	to fight or scuffle with someone to get hold of something	The cop grappled with the thief for the gun. He grappled for the gun with Max.
grapple with something	to deal with a problem; to get a "good hold" on a problem	I have enough to grapple with now. No more problems, please. I cannot grapple with any additional problems.

grasp at something/somebody	to try to seize someone or something	He grasped at the bar and held on tight. The beggar grasped at the pedestrian and lost his grip.

grasp something/somebody by something	to hold onto someone or something by something	He grasped his friend by the hand and pulled him to safety. Sharon grasped the dog by its collar and held on tight.

grass on	to report someone to a person in authority	He GRASSED ON us and got us into a lot of trouble.

grass up	to report someone to a person in authority	She didn't to GRASS them UP, even though they'd been bullying her badly.

grate on somebody	to annoy someone; to rub someone the wrong way; to bother someone	Your negative attitude really grates on me. My obnoxious brother is grating on my nerves. Your whining really grates on me. Everything you say grates on me.

gravitate to(ward) something/somebody	to move slowly toward someone or something, as if being pulled by gravity	People tend to gravitate toward the kitchen at parties. Unless you correct their manners, the children will gravitate toward rude behavior.

graze against something/somebody	to brush or scrape against someone or something	The car grazed against the side of the truck. I grazed against an old man as I was jogging this morning.

graze on something	[for animals] to browse or forage in a particular location	The cattle are grazing on the neighbor's land. I wish they wouldn't graze on other people's land.
graze on something	[for animals] to browse or forage, eating something in particular	The deer are grazing on my carrots! The cows were grazing on the meadow grasses for weeks.

green with !

greet something/somebody with something	to welcome someone or something with something; to accost someone or something with something upon arrival	I greeted her with a large bouquet of roses. The sun greeted the day with bright rays of light.

greet/welcome somebody/something with !

grey out	to disable a function in a computer program, leaving it visible but not working	They GREYED OUT the print button to stop people using it. (In American English, 'gray' would be used.).

grieve for something/somebody	to mourn for someone or something	Don't grieve for me. I'm okay. She grieved for her lost chances.

grieve over something/somebody	to lament and pine for someone or something	Now, don't grieve over a lost cat. There is no reason to continue grieving over him.

grin at something/somebody	to smile a beaming smile at someone or something	The entire class grinned at the camera. I grinned at her and she turned away quickly. to smile a beaming smile at the thought of, or mental picture of, someone or something. He grinned at the thought of his coming home to his family. He grinned at her as she gazed upon the diamond ring he had given her.

grin from !

grin/smile from ear to ear	to look extremely happy (usually in continuous tenses)	We've had a fantastic response,' he said, grinning from ear to ear.

grind away	to keep working at something	Although I hated it, I GROUND AWAY until I had finished.
grind away (at something)	to crush something into particles continually	The machine ground away at the rocks, making tons of gravel. It ground away, making a terrible noise in the process.

grind down	to reduce or destroy someone's enthusiasm	Their negativity GRINDS me DOWN.

grind into	to press or twist something hard into something else	She GROUND her cigarette INTO the ashtray.
grind something into something	and grind something in to crush or rub something into something	People's feet ground the cigarette ashes into the carpet. Their feet ground in the ashes.
grind something into something	to pulverize something into powder, grit, particles, etc.	The machine ground the rocks into gravel. The mill ground the grain into flour.

grind on	to proceed relentlessly	The war GROUND ON for years.
grind on	to talk endlessly	He was still GRINDING ON about football when we left.
grind on	[for something] to drag on endlessly	The hours ground on without anything happening. I was so tired of waiting. The lecture ground on, minute after minute.

grind out	to produce something with great difficulty	I find it very hard to GRIND OUT an original essay every week.
grind something out	to produce something by grinding	Working hard, he ground the powder out, acup at a time. He ground out the powder, a cup at a time.
grind something out	to produce something in a mechanical or perfunctory manner	The factory just keeps grinding these toys out, day after day. The machine grinds out the same part by the hundreds all day long.

grind somebody down	to wear someone down by constant requests; to wear someone down by constant nagging	If you think you can grind me down by bothering me all the time, you are wrong. The constant nagging ground down the employees at last.
grind something down	to make something smooth or even by grinding	Grind this down to make it smooth. Please grind down this rough spot.

grind something away	to remove something by grinding	Grind the bumps away and make the wall smooth. Please grind away the bumps.

grind something to something	to keep grinding something until it is something	I ground the fennel seeds to a powder and threw them in the simmering sauce. The wheels of the cars, trucks, and buses had ground the football to a broken mass.

grind something together	to rub things together	Stop grinding your teeth together. The stones ground together as we drove over them.

grind something up	to pulverize or crush something by crushing, rubbing, or abrasion	Please grind the fennel seeds up. Grind up the fennel seeds and sprinkle them on the top.
grind up	to reduce to small pieces	She GROUND the beans UP and made some coffee.

gripe at somebody	to complain to someone	Stop griping at me! There is no need to gripe at your little brother.

grist for !

groan about something/somebody	to complain about someone or something	What are you groaning about? She is groaning about her work.

groan something out	to say something with a groan	He groaned the name out. He groaned out the name of his assailant before he passed out.

groan under something	to groan while bearing a heavy burden	He groaned under the weight of the trunk. The rafters groaned under the heavy weight of the pianos.
groan under something	to suffer under a burden	For years, the people had groaned under the cruel ruler. England groaned under the rule of Cromwell just as he had groaned under King Charles.

groan with something	to groan because of something, such as pain	She groaned with pain, but no one helped her. I think the old man was groaning with boredom more than anything else.

groom somebody as something	to prepare someone for a job or position	He was grooming his son as his successor. They groomed Charles as the next treasurer.

groom somebody for something	to prepare someone for something; to prepare someone to be someone	The boss is grooming his son for the presidency of the company. They are grooming the vice president for the top position.

grope (about) (for something/somebody)	to feel around blindly for someone or something	In the darkness, he groped about for his glasses. Fran groped for the light switch and found it.

grope after something/somebody	to reach for a departing or fleeing person or thing awkwardly or ineffectually	The feeble hand groped after the departing form. I groped after the cat as it ran under the bed.

grope at something/somebody	to reach for someone or something blindly	She groped feebly at the form she could hardly see. Sharon groped at Frank as he ran out to get the doctor.

gross somebody out	How disgusting! He put chocolate syrup on his pie! So gross! He's barfing! So gross!
gross somebody out	to disgust someone	Those horrible pictures just gross me out. Jim's story totally grossed out Sally.
gross somebody out	to make someone uncomfortable because it is very unpleasant	I could only watch part of the movie because it really grossed me out.

group something under something	to classify something under some category	They have now grouped the fungi under their own families. We should group all the older ones under a separate category.

group something/somebody around something/somebody	to gather people or things around people or things	The photographer grouped the wedding party around the bride for the picture. The photographer then grouped them around the cake.

group something/somebody together	to gather people or things together	Try to group all the smokers together at one table. Steve grouped all the dictionaries together.

grouse about something/somebody	to complain about someone or something	What are you grousing about now? I am grousing about your carelessness!

grouse at	someone or an animal	to criticize someone or an animal directly to the person or animal. Stop grousing at me! Sharon is grousing at the cat again.

grovel (about) in something	to wallow around in the dirt, etc., while prostrating oneself	The poor fellow groveled about in the mud, trying to keep from being beaten. Why are you there, groveling in the dust?

grovel before something/somebody	to prostrate oneself before someone or something	The prisoner groveled before his accusers. The peasant groveled before the lord of the manor.

grovel to somebody	to kneel in deference to someone; to kowtow to someone	You don't have to grovel to me! I refuse to grovel to anyone.

grow apart	to become distant; stop having a close relationship because time, distance, interests, etc., have changed	We used to be good friends at school but have since GROWN APART.
grow apart	to stop being friends over time	My best friend and I grew apart after she changed schools.

grow away from	to become less friendly with	I have GROWN AWAY FROM many of the people I grew up with.

grow back	to grow again	Nails GROW BACK quickly after you cut them.
grow back	to regrow	My roses grew back this summer.

grow by !

grow from	to result from a process	A lot GREW FROM the peace talks.

grow into	to develop or change over time to fit something	It may seem difficult at first, but you will GROW INTO the job.
grow into	to grow to fit large clothes	The jacket's a bit big, but she'll GROW INTO it.
grow into	to mature or change into	She's has GROWN INTO a lovely person.
grow into something	to grow big enough to fit	This bike is too big for him now, but he should grow into it by next year.

grow on	to become gradually more evident	A feeling of distrust of them GREW ON me.
grow on	to have a greater influence or degree of acceptance	The plans sounded strange at first, but they have GROWN ON me.
grow on	like something that you didn't like at first	The painting has GROWN ON me; I used to eat it.
grow on (somebody)	When something "grows on" you, it means you begin liking it after initially not liking it	When I first heard that CD, I really hate it, but it's beginning to grow on me.

grow out	to let hair, etc., with dyes, perms grow to get rid of the style	I'm letting the perm GROW OUT.
grow out of	to grow too large for clothes	He GREW OUT OF those shoes in no time at all.
grow out of	to lose interest as you grow older or become more mature	He was obsessed with computer games but the he GREW OUT OF them.
grow out of	to result or develop from	The idea for the film GREW OUT OF an accident that happened to the director.
grow out of something	to get too big for	Elizabeth needs a new pair of shoes because she has grown out of her old ones.

grow to	to eventually do something	We GREW TO like the neighborhood.

grow together	to gradually become attached, united or close	We GREW TOGETHER while we were working on the same project.

grow up	to arise, emerge	The industry GREW UP very quickly.
grow up	to become an adult	When Jack grows up he wants to be a fireman.
grow up	to develop in a place or for a reason (city, town, etc.)	The town GREW UP as a trading post.
grow up	to mature, become adult	He GREW UP in the West Country.
grow up	to rear a child	She GREW me UP to be polite at all times.
grow up	to spend one's childhood/become an adult	He grew up in a small village in the mountains.
grow up	to be raised. To become an adult	I grew up in San Diego. These days children grow up too fast.
grow up on	to do or have something when you are a child	We GREW UP ON cartoons.

grow upon	to become gradually more evident	A feeling of distrust of them GREW UPON me.
grow upon	to have a greater influence or degree of acceptance	As we got nearer the date of the meeting, their idea GREW UPON me.
grow upon	to like something that you didn't like at first	The book started slowly and was a bit dull, but it has GROWN UPON me.

growl at something/somebody	to snarl at someone or something	Don't growl at me like that. The dog growled at the cat.

growl something out	to say something with a sound like growling or snarling	Jane growled a few words out. She growled out a few words and the gates opened for us.

grub around (in something)	to wear old or "grubby" clothes around	I was grubbing around in my jeans when Alice showed up. I was wearing my jeans and just sort of grubbing around when she came.

grumble about (something/somebody)	to complain about someone or something	What are you grumbling about now? The students were grumbling about the teacher.

grumble at somebody	to complain to someone	Go grumble at someone else. I'm tired of listening. Stop grumbling at me!

grunt something out	to say something with a snort or grunt	Jane grunted a command out to someone. She grunted out a curt command and the gate opened.

guarantee against something	to certify that something bad will not happen	No one can guarantee against that happening. I can't guarantee against something going wrong.
guarantee something against something (for something)	to certify that something will not fail, break, or wear out, usually for a period of time	We guarantee this radio against defects for one year. I bought a service contract to guarantee my car against defects.

guard against
guard against something/somebody	to take care to avoid someone or something	Try to guard against getting a cold. You should guard against pickpockets.

guard something/somebody from something/somebody	to protect someone or something from someone or something	The assistant manager will guard your valuables from thieves. She guarded the kitten from the angry dog.

guess at (something)	to estimate something; to give an opinion about what something might be	I hate to just guess at it, but if you insist: ten feet long. Go ahead, guess at the number of pennies in this jar.

guess what	this will surprise you I want more for my son than a career running a photocopying machine, and guess what - so does my son	Usage notes: often said for emphasis before telling someone something that is not really surprising at all.
Guess what!	a way of starting a conversation; a way of forcing someone into a conversation	Alice: Guess what! Bob: I don't know. What? Alice: I'm going to Europe this summer. Bob: That's very nice. John: Guess what! Jane: What? John: Mary is going to have a baby. Jane: Oh, that's great!

guffaw at something/somebody	to laugh at someone or something very hard and raucously	The audience guffawed at the clown's antics. The old man guffawed at the clown.

guide somebody around something	to lead or escort someone on a tour of something or some place	Please let me guide you around the plant, so you can see how we do things here. I would be happy to guide you around.

guide somebody away from something/somebody	to lead or escort someone away from someone, something, or some place (Usually said of someone who requires help or guidance)	A police officer guided the children away from the busy street. Please guide away those people before they bump into your grandmother.

guide something/somebody across (something)	to lead or escort someone or something across something	I had to guide him across the desert. The bridge was very narrow and Jill got out to guide the truck across. We had to guide it across.

guilty of

gulp for air	to eagerly or desperately try to get air or a breath	Tom gulped for air after trying to hold his breath for three minutes. Mary came up out of the water, gulping for air.

gulp something back	to force or hold back tears, sobs, etc.	He gulped his sobs back and clutched at his wound. He gulped back his sobs.

gulp something down	to drink all of something, usually quickly	He gulped his coffee down and left. He gulped down his coffee.

gum up something	to cause something to stop working well	Don't send any attachments or pictures, because they tend to gum up my computer.
gum up something	to prevent a machine or system from operating correctly	In bad weather, twice as many people use their cars on the road, which really gums up the works.
gum up the works	to prevent a machine or system from operating correctly	The project was going really well until that software upgrade gummed up the works.

gun down somebody	to shoot someone	He was the second major rap star to have been gunned down in the last six months.
gun somebody (or an animal) down	to shoot someone or an animal	Max tried to gun a policeman down. The cop tried to gun down the rabid dog.

gun for	to try to destroy an opponent	He's GUNNING FOR his rivals at work.
gun for somebody	to seek one out to shoot one	They say that Tex is gunning for the sheriff.
gun for somebody	to seek someone out in anger	The boss is gunning for you. I think that Walter is gunning for me.

gush (forth) (from something/somebody)	(Can be words, water, blood, vomit, etc.	The optional elements cannot be transposed.) The blood gushed forth from his wound. Curses gushed forth from Sharon. Water gushed forth out of the broken pipe. The words gushed out from her mouth. The curses gushed from her mouth in torrents.

gush over something/somebody	[for liquid] to flood over someone or something	The floodwaters gushed over the farmland. The hot soup gushed over the cook as the huge pot tipped over.
gush over something/somebody	[for someone] to heap praise, flattery, and compliments on someone or something	Aunt Mattie always gushed over us children so much that we dreaded her coming. All the guests gushed over my beet salad.

gush with something	[for something] to flow with something	The stream gushed with the sudden runoff of the storm. The faucet gushed with brownish water, so I turned it off.

gussy something/somebody up	to dress someone or something up; to make someone or something fancy	She gussied the kids up for the wedding. See if you can gussy up this room a little before folks get here.

guzzle something down	to drink something rapidly and eagerly	He guzzled the beer down and called for another. He guzzled down the beer and called for another.

gyp somebody out of something	to deceive someone in order to get something of value	The salesclerk gypped me out of a dollar. The taxi driver tried to gyp me out of a fortune by driving all over the place.


hack (away) at something/somebody	to chop at someone or something continuously	The brutal murderer hacked away at his victim. The woodchopper hacked at the tree and finally got it down.

hack around	to waste time	I'm just hacking around and doing nothing. Stop hacking around and get to work.
hack around	to waste time	I have been HACKING AROUND all morning because I can not get down to doing any revision.

hack into	to break into a computer system	He HACKED INTO the government database and stole a lot of data.

hack off	to annoy	He HACKS me OFF with his endless complaining.
hack somebody (off)	to annoy someone; to embarrass someone	It really hacks me when you drum your fingers like that. You really hack me off!
hack something off	to chop something off	I need to get up that tree and hack that big branch off before it bangs on the house. Please hack off that big branch.

hack one's way through something	to cut one's way through something	We had to hack our way through the jungle. The surveyors hacked a pathway through the undergrowth.

hack something down	to chop something down	Who hacked this cherry tree down? Who hacked down this cherry tree?

hack something out of something	to cut or chop something out of something	Jill hacked the bone out of the roast. She hacked out the big bone.
hack something out of something	to fashion something by carving or chiseling from something	He hacked a rabbit out of the chunk of wood. In no time, the carver had hacked out a rabbit.

hack something to something	to cut something up into something roughly or crudely, such as pieces, bits, smithereens	The editor hacked my story to smithereens. Don't hack the turkey to pieces!

hack something up	to chop something up into pieces (Refers often to wood)	Hack all this old furniture up, and we'll burn it in the fireplace. Hack up this stuff, and we'll burn it.
hack something up	to damage or mangle something	Who hacked my windowsill up? Who hacked up my table?

hack something/somebody apart	to chop up someone or something	The murderer hacked the victim apart. He hacked apart the victim. The butcher hacked the chicken apart.
hack something/somebody apart	to criticize someone or something severely	The review just hacked him apart for his poor showing in the play. The critic hacked apart all the actors in the play.

haggle (with somebody) over something/somebody	to argue with someone over someone or something	I don't want to haggle with you over Tom and whose team he's going to be on. Let's not haggle over the price. There is no point in haggling with her.

haggle about something	to bargain or negotiate about something	They are always willing to haggle about the price, so don't take the first price you're given. I wish you wouldn't try to haggle about everything when we shop.

hail from (some place)	to come from some place as one's hometown or birthplace; to originate in some place	He hails from a small town in the Midwest. Where do you hail from?
hail from somewhere	a man who is hail-fellow-well-met is very friendly and pleasant, often in a way that you do not trust He was a hail-fellow-well-met sort of a man who'd greet you with a big slap on the back.
hail from somewhere	to close enough to hear someone call out	When the boat came within hailing distance, I asked if I could borrow some gasoline. We weren't within shouting distance, so I couldn't hear what you said to me.
hail from somewhere	to come from a place (Usage notes: sometimes used in referring to someone's background)	Both John and Liza hail from South Carolina. Many of our students hail from poor backgrounds.

hail somebody as something	to praise someone for being something	The active members hailed him as fraternity brother of the year. Sally was hailed as an effective leader.

half off !

ham up	to perform or act in an excessive way to attract attention or amuse people	He HAMMED the part UP to get the audience to laugh.

hammer (away) at somebody	to interrogate someone; to ask questions endlessly of someone	The cops kept hammering away at the suspect until he told them everything they wanted to know. They hammered at him for hours.
hammer (away) at something	to continue to do a task that requires much hammering	The roofers are hammering away at the job, trying to finish before night.
hammer (away) at something	to dwell overly long on a point or a question	Stop hammering away at the same thing over and over. The agents asked question after question. They would not stop hammering at the issue.
hammer (away) at something	to pound at or on something, such as a door	Who is hammering away at the door? The police are hammering at the door.

hammer away at	to work relentlessly	She HAMMERED AWAY AT her PC all night and finished the project.

hammer into	to repeat something over a period of time to make someone remember it	He HAMMERED the rules INTO me.
hammer something into something	to hammer something in; pound something in	to drive something into something as with a hammer. Todd hammered the spike into the beam. He hammered in the spike. He hammered it in with two hard blows.

hammer out	to negotiate and reach an agreement	They HAMMERED OUT their differences and got the contract signed.
hammer out something	to create an agreement or solution to a problem	After months of just talk, we have begun to hammer out a deal which will join our two companies. We'd been arguing about the issue for weeks, so the four of us got together to hammer it out.
hammer something out	to arrive at an agreement through argument and negotiation	The two parties could not hammer a contract out. At last, we were able to hammer out an agreement.
hammer something out	to expand something by hammering it thinner	He hammered the gold out into a very thin sheet. He hammered out the gold into thin sheets.
hammer something out	to hammer a dent away; to make a dent even with the surrounding surface	I'm going to have to have someone hammer this dent in my fender out. It will take a while to hammer out the dent.
hammer something out	to play something on the piano	She hammered the song out loudly and without feeling. Listen to John hammer out that song on the piano.

hammer something down	to pound something down even with the surrounding surface	Hammer all the nails down so that none of them will catch on someone's shoe. Hammer down all these nails!

hammer something onto something	to pound something onto something	I hammered the lid onto the paint can. She hammered on the lid very tightly.

hand back	to return	The police officer checked my licence, then HANDED it BACK. He will hand this down to his granddaughter.

hand down	to give a formal decision	The court HANDED DOWN its ruling yesterday.
hand down	to pass on to the next generation	The jewellery has been HANDED DOWN in my family for generations.
hand something down	to give something used to someone else	I handed my old comic books down to my little cousin.

hand in	to submit (report, homework)	All application forms must be handed in before the end of the month.
hand in	to submit work for appraisal	I HANDED my homework IN late as usual.
hand in	to submit (a report, assignment, essay)	I have to hand in my assignment at 8 AM tomorrow morning.
hand in something; hand something in
hand something in	to submit	I have to hand in my essay by Friday.

hand on	to give to someone else	I HANDED the job ON to a colleague.
hand on	to transmit knowledge to the next generation	The secrets have been HANDED ON from generation to generation.

hand out	to distribute	The teacher HANDED OUT the worksheet to the class. William, please hand these copies out to the class. Samples will be handed out at the end of the demonstration. The teacher handed out the test to the surprised students.
hand out something; hand something out
hand something out	to distribute to a group of people	We will hand out the invitations at the door.

hand over	to give	The robbers told the clerk to HAND OVER all the money.
hand something over	to give (usually unwillingly)	The police asked the man to hand over his wallet and his weapons.

handle somebody with !

hang about	to spend time somewhere not doing much	They HANG ABOUT the station most of the day.
hang about	to stop what you're doing and pay attention to me	HANG ABOUT! We're not allowed to do this.

hang around	to stay in a place	They HANG AROUND the station most of the day.
hang around (with)	I usually spend a lot of time hanging around with my friends.

hang back	to not move forwards to avoid doing something	When they raced towards the entrance, I HUNG BACK till it was less crowded.
hang back from	to delay or avoid doing something	They were HANGING BACK FROM making the final decision.

hang by !

hang in	to stay positive (N.Amer., informal)	Hang in there. I'm sure you'll find a job very soon.
hang in the balance	to depend on something for success or continued existence (Usage notes: sometimes used without hang)	With thousands of jobs hanging in the balance, there's a lot of competition to attract new factories. They don't think we should get involved, even if lives are in the balance.
hang in there	to persevere, not give up	We were doing badly, but we HUNG IN THERE till we finished.

hang on	to hold tightly	The driver told the passengers to HANG ON as the bus pulled off.
hang on	to hold on; To wait	Hang on, please. They couldn't hang on much longer.
hang on	to wait	Could you HANG ON for a moment till she's free?
hang on	to wait a short time (informal)	Hang on while I grab my coat and shoes!

hang onto	to keep	I HUNG ONTO my old records even though I never played them.

hang out	to spend time in a particular place or with a group of friends	Where does he hang out these days? Who does he hang out with?
hang out	to spend time relaxing (informal)	Instead of going to the party we are just going to hang out at my place.
hang out	to spend time socially	He HANGS OUT in the pub The Monarch; he's there most nights.
hang out	to stay in a place for fun	Like most teenagers, she loves to hang out in the mall.
hang out for	to wait or refuse to do something until you get what you want	She's HANGING OUT FOR a big raise.
hang somebody out to dry	to defeat or punish someone	The boss was really angry at Billie. He yelled at him and hung him out to dry.
hang somebody out to dry	to get someone into trouble, especially by making them take the blame for a bad situation	When the department got into difficulties, his bosses simply hung him out to dry.
hang somebody out to dry	to not support or help someone	After losing the election, the party is going to hang him out to dry.

hang over	to worry or trouble	I have a lot of financial problem HANGING OVER my head.

hang together	to work together when things are difficult	We have to HANG TOGETHER if we're going to finish this project.

hang up	to end a phone call	I lost my temper and HUNG UP. He didn't say goodbye before he hung up. Why did you hang up on me?
hang up	to end a telephone conversation	Don't hang up. I haven't finished yet.
hang up	to end a phone conversation by replacing the receiver	We got into a huge fight on the phone and she hung up on me.
hang up on	to end a phone call with someone	A telesales person called, so I said something rude and HUNG UP ON them.
hang up something; hang something up

hang with	to spend time with	He has been HANGING WITH them for a few months.

hanker after	to want something a lot, especially if you shouldn't want it or can't have it	I'm supposed to be on a diet and I can't stop HANKERING AFTER some chocolate.
hanker after something/somebody	to want someone or something; to long for someone or something	I hanker after a nice big beefsteak for dinner.

hanker for	to want something a lot, especially if you shouldn't want it or can't have it	I have always HANKERED FOR a soft-top car.

happen (up)on something/somebody	to come upon someone or something, as if by accident (See also come (up)on someone or something)	I just happened upon a strange little man in the street who offered to sell me a watch. Andrew happened on a book that interested him, so he bought it.

happen to	What happened to Michael? He seems sad. What happened to the oranges that I put in the refrigerator? They're not there.
happen to (somebody)
happen to something/somebody	to befall someone or something; to occur to someone or something	What is going to happen to me? Something awful happened to your car.

happy about something

happy with something/somebody

harbor something against something/somebody	to have and retain a bad feeling of some kind toward someone or something	I harbor no ill will against you. Alice does not harbor any bad feeling against the company that let her go.

hard to !

harden something off	to accustom a young plant to normal weather so it can be moved from a protected environment to the out-of-doors	We put the plants by the open window to harden them off. We hardened off the plants.

harden something up	to make something hard or strong	Put the meat in the freezer awhile to harden it up before you try to slice it thin. Harden up the ice cream a little in the freezer.

hark back to something	to be similar to something from the past	His music harks back to Elvis Presley and other 1950s influences.
hark back to something	to have originated as something; to have started out as something (Harken is an older word meaning "pay heed to")	The word icebox harks back to refrigerators that were cooled by ice. Our modern breakfast cereals hark back to the porridge and gruel of our ancestors.
hark back to something	to remind one of something	Seeing a horse and buggy in the park harks back to the time when horses drew milk wagons. Sally says it harkens back to the time when everything was delivered by horse-drawn wagons.

harm on !

harness somebody (or an animal) to something	to attach someone, something, or an animal to something with a harness	The instructor harnessed me to the hang glider, and I really began to get nervous. Andrew harnessed the horses to the little wagon.

harp on	to talk repeatedly about something	I was late twice last week and my boss keeps HARPING ON about it.
harp on something	to continue to talk or complain about something; to keep raising a topic of conversation (See also harp on something)	Why do you keep harping on the same old complaint? You keep harping on my problems and ignore your own!
harp on something	to repeat something many times in an annoying way (Usage notes: said especially about complaints)	I'm tired of people who keep harping on what is wrong with the country.
harp on something/somebody	to keep talking or complaining about someone or something; to refer to someone or something again and again	I wish you would quit harping on Jeff all the time. He couldn't be all that bad. Stop harping on my mistakes and work on your own.

hash (something) over (with somebody)	to discuss something with someone	I need to hash this matter over with you. I've hashed over this business enough.

hash out something	to calm someone down, perhaps by threats or by violence	If he comes in here, I'll settle his hash. Now, that ought to settle your hash.
hash out something	to talk about something in order to reach agreement about it	The talks continued on Sunday, with the two sides trying to hash out the details of an agreement.

hash something up	to chop something up	Now, hash the onion and garlic up and put it in the skillet. Now, hash up the beef and brown it.
hash something up	to mess something up	Somebody hashed my manuscript up! Somebody hashed up my manuscript!

hassle somebody about something	to harass someone about something	Come on! Don't hassle me about the deadline! Stop hassling me with all the little details.

haul off !

haul somebody (up) before something/somebody	to bring someone into the presence of someone or something, usually some officer of the law	The officer hauled the suspect up before the judge. She hauled up the suspect before the judge.

haul somebody in	to arrest someone; [for a police officer] to take someone to the police station	The cop hauled the drunk driver in. They hauled in the suspects.

haul somebody into somewhere	to use or threaten force to make someone go somewhere	He was hauled into court and fined ten dollars for not putting his garbage in sealed bags.

haul something (from some place) to some place	to drag something from one place to another	I don't want to have to haul this thing from home to office and back again. I hauled my suitcase to the airport from my hotel.

haul something down	to pull something down from a higher level	Terry hauled the sail down and put it away. Please haul down the mainsail.

haul something up (from something)	to drag or pull something up from below	Jeff hauled the bucket up from the bottom of the well. He hauled up the bucket.
haul up (somewhere)	to stop somewhere; to come to rest somewhere	The car hauled up in front of the house. My hat blew away just as the bus pulled up to the stop.

haul something/somebody over to something	to drag someone or something over to something (Fixed order)	She hauled the boy over to the mess he made and forced him to clean it up. Ken hauled the logs over to the fireplace and laid the fire.

have against	to dislike, disagree or hold a grudge (usually negative)	I HAVE nothing AGAINST their proposals.

have around	to entertain someone in your home	I HAD the neighbours AROUND for dinner last night.

have down as	to think of someone or something in a particular way	I HAD her DOWN AS a liberal, but I was very wrong.
have something down !

have in	to entertain people in your home	We HAD them IN last night for dinner.
have in	to get someone to do some work	We HAD the decorators IN last week.
have in	to have a supply of something in a particular place	Do we HAVE any beer IN?
have it in for	to hold a grudge	He has HAD IT IN FOR me since I beat him last year.
have something/somebody in !

have it away	to have sex with someone, especially casual sex	She HAD IT AWAY with him last Friday.

have it off	to have sex	They HAD IT OFF after the party.

have it out with	to discuss or argue an issue to improve a situation	I'd been worried for ages, so I decided to HAVE IT OUT WITH them.

have off	to take time off work	I HAD a couple of days OFF last week to relax.

have on	to be in possession at a particular time	I HAVEN'T any money ON me, but I can get some from the ATM.
have on	to be wearing	What did Jennie HAVE ON at the party?
have on	to have an arrangement	I HAVE a lot of meetings ON next week.
have on	to have an electronic device switched on	I HAVE my computer ON all the time.
have on	to know something about someone that could harm them	I HAVE a lot ON him because we used to work together.
have on	to tease, deceive	They said they'd failed, but they were HAVING me ON.
have on something; have something on

have over	to receive a guest	Shall we HAVE them OVER for dinner?

have round	to entertain someone in your home	I HAD a few friends ROUND yesterday.

head for	to move or travel towards	It's getting late - I'm HEADING FOR home.

head off	to leave somewhere to go to another place	After work, we all HEADED OFF to the pub.
head off	to prevent something bad happening	The company made a better offer to HEAD OFF the moves for a strike.
head off	to stop someone or force them to change direction	The sheriff and his men HEADED the bandits OFF at the pass.

head out	to go out	We're HEADING OUT at seven, so don't be late.

head up	to be in charge	He's HEADING UP the steering committee.

heal over	[for the surface of a wound] to heal	The wound healed over very quickly, and there was very little scarring. I hope it will heal over without having to be stitched.

heal somebody of something	to cure someone's ailments	Are you the doctor who healed me of my wounds? Can any doctor heal us of a common cold?

heal up	[for an injury] to heal	The cut healed up in no time at all. My injury healed up in around no time.

heap something (up)on something/somebody	to give someone too much of something, such as homework, praise, criticism, etc. (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Don't heap too much praise on her. She will get conceited. The manager heaped criticism on the workers.
heap something (up)on something/somebody	to pile something up on someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Please don't heap so much trouble upon me! Wally heaped leaves on the flower bed.
heap something on somebody/something	to express a strong opinion about someone or something (Usage notes: often heap scorn on someone or something (to express a strong lack of respect))	Other leaders heaped praise on the president at the meeting. He heaped scorn on those who thought the plan would work.
heap something on somebody/something	to get rid of someone or something that is not wanted or needed any more (usually passive)	Many people over forty who can't find a job feel they've been thrown on the scrap heap.

heap something up	to make something into a pile	He heaped the mashed potatoes up on my plate, because he thought I wanted lots. Heap up the leaves in the corner of the yard.

heap something with something	to pile something onto something	Karen heaped Jeff's plate with way too much food. We heaped the driveway with leaves and then put them into bags.

hear about	I heard about the lecture from Michael.
hear about something/somebody

hear from	to receive news from (phone call, letter, e-mail, etc.)	Have you heard from Robert lately? I just got an email from Michael - IВ hear fromВ him everyday.
hear from somebody

hear of	to know/ be familiar with something or someone	I have never heard of that band. Have you ever heard of a music group called "Echelon"? They seem to be popular in France.
hear of something/somebody
hear of/about

hear out	Hear me out, will you? I have more to tell.

hearken to something/somebody	Formal or stilted to listen to someone or something; to pay attention to someone or something	Please hearken to me. I speak the truth. Hearken to the call of the nightingale.

heat somebody up	to make someone angry (One old [now folksy] past tense is het)	This kind of nonsense really heats me up. Mean talk heats up the kids.
heat something up (to something)	to raise the temperature of something to a certain level	Please heat this room up to about seventy degrees. Can you heat up the room a little more?heat up
heat up	to make food hot	He HEATED the soup UP in the microwave. How soon will lunch be heated up?
heat up	to get warmer or hot	It really heats up in the afternoon around here. How soon will dinner be heated up?
heat up	to grow more animated or combative	The debate began to heat up near the end. Their argument was heating up, and I was afraid there would be fighting.
heat up (something)	to become more active	Although nothing is happening right now, business will likely heat up in September after vacation season. Her report has heated up debate on how the president should behave.
heat up (something)	to make a situation more serious by trying harder to force someone to do something (often + on)	Lorry drivers are discussing whether to turn up the heat on their bosses by holding a one-day strike. The United States has turned up the heat by threatening military action.
heat up (something)	to start to work or play in a more determined and effective way	Nottingham turned up the heat in the second half and forced their opponents back onto the defensive.

heave in(to) sight	to move into sight in the distance	As the fog cleared, a huge ship heaved into sight. After many days of sailing, land finally heaved in sight.

heave something at something/somebody	to throw something at someone or something	Fred heaved a huge snowball at Roger. The thug heaved the rock at the window and broke it to pieces.

heave something up	to lift something up	With a lot of effort, they heaved the heavy lid up. The workers heaved up the huge boulder.
heave something up	to vomit something up	The dog heaved most of the cake up on the kitchen floor. It heaved up the cake it had eaten.

hedge against something	to do something to lessen the risk of something happening; to bet against something bad happening	I want to hedge against something going wrong in the stock market, so I have bonds in my portfolio, too. We will hedge against any risk we can detect.
hedge something against something	to protect investments against a decline in value by making counterbalancing bets or investments	The investor hedged his portfolio against a drop in stock prices by buying some bonds. I have to hedge my bets against losing.

hedge somebody in	to restrict someone (See also hedge someone or something in)	Our decision hedged in the children so they could not have any flexibility. She hedged herself in by her own behavior.
hedge something/somebody in	to enclose someone or something in a hedge (See also hedge someone in)	Their overgrown yard has almost hedged us in. Their bushes hedged in our yard.

heist something/somebody (up)	to lift someone or something	See if you can heist that box onto the top shelf. Dad heisted me up so I could see over the fence. John groaned and heisted up the bale of hay.

help (somebody) with (something)
help somebody with something

help out	to give assistance	She really HELPED me OUT when I was going through my divorce. Can you help me out?
help out somebody

hem in somebody/something	to surround someone or something	They found themselves hemmed in by the crowd. The building was hemmed in by high walls.
hem something/somebody in	to trap or enclose someone or something	The large city buildings hem me in. Don't hem in the bird. Let it have a way to escape.

herd something/somebody together	to bunch people or animals together	Let's herd all the kids together and take them in the house for ice cream and cake. I herded all the puppies together and put them in a box while I cleaned their play area.

hesitate over something	to pause before acting on something; to suspend action about someone or something	We are hesitating over the final decision because we have some doubts about the competitors. Do not hesitate too long over this matter.

hew something down	to fell something wooden, usually a tree	We will have to hew most of this forest down. They hewed down the tree.

hew something out of something	to carve the shape of something out of something wooden	Dan hewed each of the posts out of a tree trunk. He hewed out a number of posts.

hew to something	to conform to a rule or principle	I wish you would hew to the rules a little better. Sarah refuses to hew to the company policies.

hide (something) from (somebody)

hide (something/somebody) away (some place)	to conceal someone or something somewhere	Please hide Randy away where no one can find him. Rachel hid the cake away, hoping to save it for dessert. Mary hid away the candy so the kids wouldn't eat it all.

hide behind something/somebody	to conceal oneself behind someone or something	The child hid behind his father. Rachel hid behind a tree.
hide something/somebody behind something	to use something to conceal someone or something	We hid the guests for the surprise party behind a large Oriental screen. I will hide the cake behind the screen too.

hide from
hide from somebody
hide from somebody (or an animal)	to conceal oneself from someone or an animal	Are you hiding from me? The rabbit was trying to hide from the fox.
hide something from somebody

hide out (from something/somebody)	to hide oneself so that one cannot be found by someone or something	Max was hiding out from the police in Detroit. Lefty is hiding out too.
hide out (from)	Ben was hiding out from the police.

hide something in something	to conceal something inside something	She hid her money in a book. Let's hide the cake in this closet.

hike (something) up	to raise something, such as prices, interest rates, a skirt, pants legs, etc.	The grocery store is always hiking prices up. She hiked up her skirt so she could wade across the creek.

hinder somebody from something	to prevent someone from doing something	Please don't hinder me from my appointed tasks. You can't hinder me from doing what I want!
hinder somebody/something from something

hinge on something	to depend on someone or something; to depend on what someone or something does (Upon is formal and less commonly used than cm)	The success of the project hinges upon you and how well you do your job. How well the corn crop does all hinges on the weather.
hinge on something	to depend on something	The case hinged on whether the jury believed the accused thief or the two witnesses.

hint at something	to refer to something; to insinuate something	What are you hinting at? I am not hinting at anything. I am telling you to do it!

hint for something	to give a hint that something is wanted	I could tell she was hinting for an invitation. Are you hinting for a second helping of fried chicken?

hint something to somebody	to give a hint or clue to someone	I thought she was leaving. She hinted that to me. She wasn't hinting anything to you! You made it all up!

hire somebody away (from something/somebody)	[for one] to get someone to quit working for some other employer and begin working for one	We hired Elaine away from her previous employer, and now she wants to go back. The new bank hired away all the tellers from the old bank.

hire something/somebody out	to grant someone the use or efforts of someone or something for pay	I hired my son out as a lawn-care specialist. I hire out my son to mow lawns.

hiss at something/somebody	[for a reptile] to make a hissing sound as a warning	The snake hissed at me. Otherwise I wouldn't have known it was there. The lizard hissed at the snake.
hiss at something/somebody	[for someone] to make a hissing sound at someone to show disapproval	The audience hissed at the performer, who was not all that bad. They hissed at all three acts.

hiss somebody off (of the stage)	[for the audience] to hiss and drive a performer off the stage	The boys in the front row tried to hiss her off the stage. The audience, angry with the quality of the singers, tried to hiss them all off.

hiss something out	to say something with a hissing voice, usually in anger or disgust	The disgusted manager hissed his appraisal out. He hissed out his criticism.

hit at	to aim a blow at something.	He hit at the wasp with a newspaper.

hit back	to attack or criticize	The president HIT BACK at her critics in a speech last night.
hit back	to retaliate/reply to an attack	When he was attacked, the boy retaliated. He hit me, but I didn't hit him back.

hit for	to get someone to pay or donate money	They HIT the sponsors FOR a lot of money.

hit it off	to have a good relationship from the first time you meet a person	We HIT IT OFF immediately and became firm friends.
hit it off with	to like someone from the first time you meet them	I HIT IT OFF WITH her immediately.

hit on	to ask for money	A beggar HIT ON me when I left the restaurant.
hit on	to have an idea	I suddenly HIT ON the solution.
hit on	to talk to someone to try to attract them sexually	She HIT ON him at the party and they went back to her house.
hit on	to flirt with someone	That guy was hitting on me all night at the club. Tom was hitting on Mike's girlfriend.
hit on/upon	find unexpectedly or by inspiration	She hit upon an idea for her new collection.

hit out at	to respond angrily to criticism	The government HIT OUT AT the media for their negativity.

hit somebody below !

hit up	to ask someone for some money	He always tries to HIT me UP for money when we meet.
hit up (on)	to inject drugs	She's been HITTING UP for years. He's been HITTING UP ON heroin for years.

hit upon	to have an idea	It took us ages to HIT UPON a solution.
hit upon	to try to attract someone sexually	He tried to HIT UPON her at the pub.

hit with	to surprise someone with some information or news	He HIT me WITH the details of their demands.

hitch something/somebody (up) (to something)	to attach someone or something to something	Please hitch the horse up to the wagon, and let's get going. Please hitch up the horse.
hitch to somebody/something !

hive of !

hoard something up	to accumulate a large store of something against bad times	Scott was hoarding canned goods up for the hard times ahead. He hoarded up many pounds of canned tuna.

hobnob with something/somebody	to associate with someone or a group, especially with those more wealthy, famous, etc.	I'm not used to hobnobbing with such luminaries. Walter is spending a lot of time hobnobbing with the very rich.

hoist with !

hold against	to have a grudge against someone, or little respect	He was very rude, but I won't HOLD it AGAINST him.hold back

hold back	to not disclose information or make it public	The government HELD BACK the findings of the report for fear of alienating voters.
hold back	to not show emotion	It was really hard to HOLD BACK the tears. I held back the anger.
hold back	to prevent something moving forwards or progressing	Lack of funding HELD the project BACK.
hold back from	to not allow yourself to do something	I had to HOLD BACK FROM losing my temper with them.
hold somebody/something back	to prevent from doing/going	I had to hold my dog back because there was a cat in the park.
hold something back	to hide an emotion	Jamie held back his tears at his grandfather's funeral.

hold down	to keep a job	He's so unreliable that he can never HOLD DOWN a job for more than a couple of months.
hold down	to stop someone or something from moving	It took four of us to HOLD him DOWN and stop the fight.

hold forth	to state your opinions about something, especially when talking for a long time and boringly	The manager HELD FORTH on the topic for about twenty minutes.

hold for something/somebody !

hold off	to stop someone from attacking or beating you	Chelsea couldn't HOLD their opponents OFF and lost the game.
hold off	when bad weather doesn't appear	The rain HELD OFF until we'd got back home.
hold off on	to delay	Let's hold off on making dinner until your roommates come back.

hold on	to grip tightly	She held on to the railing as she crossed the bridge.
hold on	to hold tightly	We HELD ON as the bus started to move.
hold on	to wait (a short time)	Could you HOLD ON for a minute; she'll be free in a moment. Please hold on while I transfer you to the Sales Department. Hold on please. I'll put you through to Mr. Brown. I have never heard of that band. Hold on a minute! I have to check this first.
hold on to (something/somebody)	to hold tightly	I HELD ON TO my luggage while I was waiting fr the taxi so that it didn't get stolen.

hold onto	to hold tightly	The mother HELD ONTO her daughter's hand to keep together in the crowd.
hold onto	to keep as long as possible	It tried to HOLD ONTO my cash during the holiday so I could buy some duty free stuff on the way back.
hold onto somebody/something	to hold firmly using your hands or arms	Hold onto your hat because it's very windy outside.

hold out	to hold in front of you	I HELD OUT my hand when she walked in.
hold out	to resist	When the enemy attacked, they HELD OUT for six weeks. I don't know how long they can hold out.
hold out against	to try to reject	The staffs are HOLDING OUT AGAINST the plans to reduce the workforce.
hold out on	to not pay someone or give them information	He's been HOLDING OUT ON me for weeks and I really need the money.
hold out/offer !

hold over	to delay	The meeting has been HELD OVER till Friday.
hold over	to continue something for longer than planned	It has been so successful that they have HELD it OVER for another fortnight.

hold somebody/something up	to rob	A man in a black mask held the bank up this morning.
hold something/somebody up to !

hold something/somebody in !

hold still	(for someone or something) and keep still (for someone or something); stand still (for someone or something) to remain motionless for someone or something	Hold still for the doctor and the shot won't hurt. Please keep still for the doctor.
hold still for something	to tolerate or endure something (Often in the negative)	I won't stand still for that kind of behavior! She won't hold still for that kind of talk.

hold sway	to control	Each group that held sway over a particular strip of the Mississippi River controlled who used it.
hold sway	to have great influence	Ten years after she correctly predicted the crash, she still holds sway among stock brokers.
hold sway	to swing or bend from one side to the other	The car swayed from side to side as we started out, indicating that something was seriously wrong. He swayed from side to side with the rhythm of the music.

hold together	to not break up	The society managed to HOLD TOGETHER despite the crisis.

hold up	to delay when travelling	I was HELD UP by the terrible traffic and arrived half an hour late for my appointment.
hold up	to rob with violence or threats thereof	Two armed men HELD UP the bank in High Street this morning and got away with ВЈ75,000.
hold up	to delay	I'm sorry we're late. We got held up at the airport.
hold up	to rob	My sister is very upset. Two men held her up and took her purse and jewelry.

hold with	to accept (usually negative)	I don't HOLD WITH their plans.

holler something out	to yell something out	The guard hollered a warning out. They hollered out a warning.

hollow something out	to make the inside of something hollow	Martha hollowed the book out and put her money inside. She hollowed out a book.

home in on	to target	The government is HOMING IN ON benefit fraud.

hone for something/somebody	to long for someone or something	Tom: What's wrong with Jane? Mary: She's honing for her sweetheart. Jimmy was honing for the red bicycle in the toy store window.

hone in on	to target, focus	The company HONED IN ON its rival and tried to take it over.

honk at something/somebody	to sound a horn at someone or something	Is someone honking at me? The motorists honked at the sheep that were clogging the roadway.

hoodwink somebody into something	to deceive someone into doing something	She will try to hoodwink you into driving her to the airport. Watch out. You can't hoodwink me into doing that!

hoodwink somebody out of something	to get something away from someone by deception	Are you trying to hoodwink me out of my money? Max tried to hoodwink the old lady out of all her money.

hook in (to something)	to connect into something	We will hook into the water main tomorrow morning. We dug the pipes up and hooked in.

hook oneself on something/somebody	to become enamored of someone or something	I'm afraid I've hooked myself on Alice. He hooked himself on Bach organ music.
hook somebody on something	to addict someone to a drug or alcohol	Careful, or you'll hook yourself on those tranquilizers. Some friend at school hooked Roger on dope. Sharon has hooked herself on cocaine.
hook something on (to something/somebody)	to attach something to someone or something by a hook	Hook this sign on her and let her walk around advertising our play. Hook on the sign and hope that it stays. Hook it onto the tree carefully.

hook somebody up (with somebody)	to arrange for someone to go out with someone	I hooked Alice up with Tom last year, and now they're getting married.
hook something up	to set something up and get it working (The object is to be connected to a power supply, electronic network, telephone lines, etc.)	Will it take long to hook the telephone up? As soon as they hook up the computer to the network, I can e-mail my friends.
hook something/somebody up	to attach someone or something to someone or something	The nurse hooked the patient up to the oxygen tubes. They hooked up the patient with the tubes.
hook up	to meet someone	We HOOKED UP at the conference.
hook up (with somebody)	to meet someone and spend time together	I was traveling alone, but then I hooked up with another woman about my age.
hook up (with somebody)	to meet with someone (*be careful because this often has sexual overtones*)	We hooked up last weekend.
hook up to	to connect to a machine	He's HOOKED UP TO a ventilator in the hospital.
hook up with somebody	to join forces with someone	If we hook up with each other it'll be easier to defeat the others. These two competitors have hooked up together and we now have a real problem.
hook up with somebody	to meet with someone	Fancy hooking up with you here, Bill. How have you been? Well, hello, Tom. I didn't think I'd hook up with you again so soon.

hook something down	to attach something and hold it down with a hook	Please hook the lid down so it doesn't fall off. Please hook down the lid.
hook something down	to eat something quickly; to gobble something up	Wally hooked the first hamburger down and ordered another. He hooked down two more burgers in a few minutes.
hook something down	to toss something down to someone	Hook another can of beer down to me, will you? Hook down another can of beer.

hook something into something	to connect something to something	I want to hook another communication line into the system. Is it possible to hook my computer into your network?

hoon around	to act in a dangerous or reckless way, especially when driving fast	He was HOONING AROUND in his new car last night and the police pulled him.

hoot somebody off the stage	[for an audience] to boo and hiss until a performer leaves the stage	The rude audience hooted Carl off the stage. Carl was hooted off the stage.

hop in (to something)	to jump into something; to get into something	Hop into your car and drive over to my house. I hopped in and drove off.

hop off	((of) something) to jump off something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	She hopped off her bike and came into the house. The bird on the branch hopped off.

hop on (to something)	to jump or get onto something that is moving	Sometimes you have to hop onto the cable car after it has started to move. I ran to the cable car and hopped on.

hop something up	to make a machine, especially a car, run extra fast or give it extra power	He will take that junk heap home and hop it up. He spent nearly every evening hopping up his old car.
hop up (to something/somebody)	[for an animal] to come close to someone or something by hopping	The bunny hopped up to me and just sat there. It hopped up and stared.

hop to !

hope for something
hope of/for

hope to (do something)

horn in (on somebody/something)	to do something difficult in a determined and confident way	Why don't you take the bull by the horns and tell him to leave?
horn in (on somebody/something)	to interrupt or try to become involved when you are not welcome	George worried that his brother would try to horn in on the company's success.
horn in (on something)	to attempt to participate in something without invitation or consent	Are you trying to horn in on my conversation with Sally? I hope you are not trying to horn in on our party.

horse around	to not be serious	The classes were HORSING AROUND when the teacher came in and told them to sit down.

hot on !

hot to !

hot under !

hound out	to force someone out of a place, job, position, etc.	The press HOUNDED the minister OUT after the scandal broke.
hound something out !

hound somebody from !

hover around (something/somebody)	to hang or wait around someone or something	The mugger hovered around the side door to the theater, waiting for a victim. The birds hovered around the bird feeder.

hover between something (and something else)	to float or hang between things	The helicopter hovered between the buildings and lowered a rescue chair. The hummingbird hovered between the blossoms, sipping from one and then the other.
hover between something (and something else)	to waver between choosing one thing and another	I hovered between chocolate and vanilla. Uncle Jed hovered between life and death for days.

hover over something/somebody	to remain suspended over someone or something	The rescue helicopter hovered over the floating sailor. A huge blimp hovered over the football stadium.
hover over something/somebody	[for someone] to stay close to someone or something, waiting, ready to advise or interfere	Please don't hover over me, watching what I am doing. I have to hover over this project or someone will mess it up.

howl at something/somebody	and hoot at someone or something	to yell out at someone or something. The audience howled at the actors and upset them greatly. We hooted at the singer until he stopped.
howl at something/somebody	to laugh very hard at someone or something	Everyone just howled at Tom's joke. I howled at the story Alice told.
howl at something/somebody	[for a canine] to bay at someone or something	The dog howls at me when I play the trumpet. The wolves howled at the moon and created a terrible uproar.

howl somebody down	to yell at or boo someone's performance; to force someone to stop talking by yelling or booing	The audience howled the inept magician down. They howled down the musician.

howl with something	to yell or holler because of something, such as pain	Roger howled with pain as the needle went into his arm. Mary howled with grief when she saw what had happened to her roses.

huddle (up) (together)	to bunch up together	The children huddled up together to keep warm. They huddled up to keep warm. The newborn rabbits huddled together and squirmed hungrily.
huddle somebody together	to bunch people together	The scoutmaster huddled the boys together to give them a pep talk. Let's huddle everyone together to keep warm.

hunch over	[for someone] to bend over	The wounded man hunched over and staggered to the window. He was hunched over with pain.

hunch something up	to raise up or lift up some body part, usually the shoulders	He hunched his shoulders up in his effort to get warm. He hunched up his shoulders to keep warm.
hunch up	to squeeze or pull the parts of one's body together	He hunched up in a corner to keep warm. Why is that child hunched up in the corner?

hunger after something	to crave for something, not necessarily food	I hunger after some old-fashioned gospel music. Mary hungered after something fattening, such as ice cream or even a baked potato with sour cream.

hunger for something/somebody	to desire someone or something; to yearn for someone or something	I hunger for you. I want you madly. He looked at the cake and you could see he was hungering for it. The prisoner was consumed with a hunger for freedom.

hunker down	to settle in a place as comfortably as possible to stay there	The troops HUNKERED DOWN in the building.
hunker down	to apply oneself to something, to get started working at something	I hunkered down to my chores, hoping to get them done before noon. If you want to get a good grade on that report, you'd better hunker down to it.
hunker down	to stay in a place or situation	Members of Congress were hunkered down for weeks of debate on the issue. It had been raining since early morning, a perfect day to hunker down behind the computer and get some work done.
hunker down (on something)	to squat down on one's heels, a stool, a stone, etc.	Jeff hunkered down on the pavement and watched the world go by. He hunkered down to take a rest.

hunt after something/somebody	to seek or pursue someone or something	I'm hunting after a tall man with straight black hair. Elaine is hunting after a place to store her bicycle.

hunt down	to search for someone to punish or kill them	The police HUNTED the killer DOWN.
hunt something/somebody down	to chase and catch someone or something	I don't know where Amy is, but I'll hunt her down. I'll find her. I will hunt down the villain.
hunt something/somebody down	to locate someone or something	I don't have a big enough gasket. I'll have to hunt one down. I have to hunt down a good dentist.

hunt for something/somebody	to chase someone or something for sport	The hunter hunted for grouse on the game preserve. Frank likes to hunt for deer.
hunt for something/somebody	to look for someone or something	I am hunting for someone to help me with the piano. lam hunting for a new piano.

hunt out	to search until you find something	It took me ages to HUNT OUT the photos.
hunt something/somebody out	to find someone or something even if concealed	We will hunt them all out and find every last one of those guys. We will hunt out all of them. They hunted out the murderer.

hunt through something	to search through the contents of something; to search among things	Joel hunted through his wallet for a dollar bill. I will have to hunt through my drawers for a pair of socks that match.

hunt up	to search for and manage to find something	He HUNTED UP a copy the book in the British library.

hurl something around	to throw something, such as words, around carelessly	Don't just go hurling foul words around like they didn't mean anything. You are just hurling around words!

hurl something away (from something/somebody)	to throw or push something away from someone or something	She hurled the bricks away from the partially buried child. Hurl away the bricks as fast as you can.

hurl something/somebody at something/somebody	to throw someone or something at someone or something	The huge man actually hurled me at the tree. Larry hurled his shoe at me.

hurl something/somebody down	to throw or push someone or something downward to the ground	Roger hurled the football down and it bounced away wildly. He hurled down the football in anger. The angry player hurled the ball down.

hurl something/somebody into something	to throw someone or something into something	She hurled the little boys into the storm cellar and went back to the house for the dog. Sharon hurled her belongings into the suitcase and jammed it closed.

hurl something/somebody out (of some place)	to throw someone or something out of some place	The manager hurled them out of the tavern. The manager hurled out the annoying people.

hurry away	to leave in a hurry	I have to hurry away. Excuse me, please. It's an emergency. Don't hurry off. I need to talk to you.

hurry back (to something/somebody)	to return to someone or something immediately or as fast as possible	Oh, please hurry back to me as soon as you can. Hurry back!

hurry down (to somewhere)	to descend rapidly	We need you down here in the basement. Hurry down. Please hurry down to the kitchen and help us.

hurry one on one's way	to help someone to hasten on	Mary hurried Joel on his way so he could catch his train. There is no need to hurry me on my way. I am leaving.

hurry something/somebody along	to make someone or something go faster	Go hurry your mother along. We're almost late. Why don't you hurry the meeting along?

hurry something/somebody in (to something)	to make someone or something go into something fast	She hurried the chickens into the coop and closed the door on them for the night. It was beginning to rain, so Jerry hurried the children in.

hurry something/somebody up	to make someone or something go or work faster	Please hurry them all up. We are expecting to have dinner very soon. See if you can hurry this project up a little.
hurry up	to be quick/act speedily	Hurry up! We'll miss the bus!
hurry up	to move faster	Hurry up! You're going to be late. Please hurry on. We have a lot to do today. Hurry up, will you? I got some errands to run today.

hurtle through something	to travel through something at great speed or with great force, possibly causing breakage	A brick hurtled through the window and fell on the floor. The rocket hurtled through space toward Mars.

hush somebody up	Please be quiet (Not very polite)	I've heard enough of that talk. Hush your mouth! Now, hush your mouth! You shouldn't talk like that!
hush somebody up	money that you pay someone to stop them telling anyone else about something that you want to keep secret	His assistant had been paid hush money to stop him from speaking to the press.
hush somebody up	to kill someone	The gang was afraid the witness would testify and wanted to hush him up. Mr. Big told Sam to hush up Richard.
hush somebody up	to make someone quiet	Please hush the children up. I have a telephone call. Hush up those kids!
hush somebody up	to not let someone talk about something	She knew about the defects, and company officials tried to hush her up.
hush something up	to keep something a secret; to try to stop a rumor from spreading	We just couldn't hush it up. We wanted to hush up the story, but there was no way to do it.
hush something up	to not let something become known	She could have died ten years ago, and the news was hushed up. They made a great effort to hush things up and maintain order.
hush up	to be quiet; to get quiet; to stop talking	You talk too much. Hush up! I want you to hush up and sit down!
hush up	to try to keep something bad from becoming widely known	The company tried to HUSH UP the scandal, but it still got into the newspapers.

hype something/somebody (up)	to promote, advertise, or boost someone or something, often excessively	No matter how much they hyped it up, it was still a very dull movie. Her agent hyped her up as a great actress.


ice over	[for water] to freeze and develop a covering of ice	I can't wait for the river to ice over so we can do some ice fishing.

ice something down	to cool something with ice	They are icing the champagne down now. They are icing down the champagne now.

ice something up	to cause something to become icy	I hope the cold doesn't ice the roads up. The wind and rain iced up the roads.
ice up	to become icy	Are the roads icing up?

identify (oneself) with something/somebody	to classify oneself with someone or something; to relate to someone or something; to see part of oneself represented in someone or something	I identify myself with the others. I identify with the birds and animals of the forest.
identify something/somebody with something/somebody	to associate people and things, in any combination	I tend to identify Wally with big cars. We usually identify green with grass. We tend to identify big cars with greedy people.
identify with somebody	to determine that someone is a certain person	Can you identify Fred as the perpetrator? Fred was identified as the thief.
identify with somebody	to reveal one's identity or name	Will you identify the man as Tom? The stranger identified himself as a meter reader from the gas company.
identify with somebody	to understand and feel sympathy for someone relate to somebody	Ordinary people can identify with him in many ways, mainly because he talks to voters like an ordinary person.
identify with something	to feel that you understand a situation relate to something	So, they've run out of money? I can identify with that!

identify something/somebody by something	to recognize someone or something because of something	Can you identify your baggage by any special marks? You can identify me by the red carnation in my lapel.

idle about	to loiter around, doing nothing	Please don't idle about. Get busy! Andy is idling about today.

idle something away	to waste one's time in idleness; to waste a period of time, such as an afternoon, evening, one's life	She idled the afternoon away and then went to a party. Don't idle away the afternoon.

ill at !

illuminate something with something	to decorate a manuscript with pictures or designs, as done in medieval monasteries	The monks spent all their days illuminating manuscripts with pictures. No one has the patience to illuminate books with tiny designs.
illuminate something with something	to light up something with something	The lights illuminated the monument with a bright glow. The monument was illuminated with mercury vapor lamps.

illustrate something with something	to provide pictorial examples for a book or other document	She illustrated her book with clever line drawings. We need someone to illustrate this book with drawings.
illustrate something with something	to use something to show how something works, how something is meant to be, or how to do something	Would you please illustrate how to do it with a drawing or two? I think I can illustrate what I mean with a little more explanation.

imagine something/somebody as something/somebody	to think of someone or something as another person or another type of thing	I really can't imagine you as a sailor. When I imagine John as our new president, I really worry about our future as a company.

imbue somebody/something with something	to fill someone or something with a particular quality or feeling	Her poetry was imbued with a love of the outdoors. They seemed more interested in enriching themselves than in imbuing people with the spirit of God.
imbue somebody/something with something	to indoctrinate someone with something; to build something into someone	I tried to imbue my children with a strong sense of justice. Her thinking and attitudes had been imbued with childhood fears.

immerse something/somebody in something	to saturate or steep someone or a group in information or some type of instruction	The trainers immersed us in details day after day. The teachers will immerse the entire class in nothing but the Spanish language, day after day.
immerse something/somebody in something	to submerge someone or something beneath the surface of a liquid; to soak someone or something in a liquid	The preacher immersed the baptism candidate in the water. We immersed all the dirty plates in the soapy water and left them to soak. She immersed herself in the bathwater.

immigrate (in)to some place (from some place)	to migrate into a place from some other place	Many of them immigrated into Minnesota from northern Europe. My family immigrated to Chicago.

impact (up)on something/somebody	[for something] to have an effect on someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	This plant closing will impact upon the local economy for years to come. The day's troubles impacted on Rachel quite seriously.

impale something/somebody on something	to put someone or something on a pointed object and press down	The crowd had impaled an effigy of the dictator on a sharpened stick. The waves almost impaled me on a submerged tree branch.

impart something to something/somebody	to bestow a quality on someone or a group	That hat imparts an aura of grandeur to her presence. Walnut paneling imparts an expensive seriousness to a law office.
impart something to something/somebody	to tell something to someone or a group	My professor tried to impart her knowledge to us. The speaker imparted a great deal of wisdom to the group.

impeach somebody for something	to charge someone with doing something illegal	You can't impeach her for just disagreeing! We tried to impeach Gus for failing to attend sessions.
impeach somebody for something	to criticize or discredit someone for something	The opposition impeached him for his position in no uncertain terms. Liz was impeached by the press for her views.

impinge (up)on something/somebody	to affect or interfere with someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	This will not impinge upon me at all. Will this matter impinge on my policies in any way?

implant something in(to) something/somebody	to embed something into someone or something	The surgeon implanted a pacemaker into Fred. They implanted the device in Fred's chest.

implicate somebody (in something)	to suggest that someone is involved in something	The mayor was implicated in the bribery scandal. Jane's essay implicated her teacher in the cheating scandal.

import something (from something) (into something)	to buy and transport something from a foreign place into a country	We imported the carpets from the Orient into this country. They imported wine into this country from France. I imported this from Germany.

impose (up)on somebody	to be a bother to someone; to make a request of something to someone (Often refers to being an overnight guest or having a meal at someone's house; Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	I don't mean to impose upon you, but could you put me up for the night? Don't worry, I won't let you impose on me.

impose something (up)on somebody	to force something on someone (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Don't try to impose your ideas upon me! The colonists tried to impose their values on the indigenous peoples.

impregnate something with something	to put something negative into something	You have impregnated the entire matter with unpleasantness. The whole scheme has been impregnated with needless flaws.
impregnate something with something	to saturate something with something; to penetrate something with some fluid	They impregnated the boards with a wood preservative. The process impregnated the fibers with a bright yellow dye.

impress on
impress something (up)on somebody	to make someone fully aware of something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	You must impress these facts upon everyone you meet. She impressed its importance on me.
impress something (up)on something	to press something into the surface of something, leaving a mark	The ribbing of my socks impressed a pattern upon my calves. The heavy vase impressed its outline on the pine tabletop.

impress somebody by something	to make someone notice one's good qualities	You impress me by your willingness to serve. We were all impressed by your candor.

impress somebody with something/somebody	to awe someone with someone or something	Are you trying to impress me with your wisdom? She impressed him with her friend, who was very tall.

impress something into something	to press something into something	I impressed the key into the wax, making a perfect copy. Andy impressed his thumb into the pie.

imprint something on(to) something	and imprint something into something to make a permanent record of something in an animal's brain (As with newly hatched fowl, which imprint the image of the first moving creature they see into their brains)	The sight of its mother imprinted itself on the little gosling's brain. Nature imprints this information into the bird's memory.
imprint something on(to) something	and imprint something into something to record something firmly in the memory of someone	The severe accident imprinted a sense of fear onto Lucy's mind. Imprint the numbers into your brain and never forget them!
imprint something on(to) something	to print something onto something	We imprinted your name onto your stationery and your business cards. Please imprint my initials on this label.

imprint something with something	to print something with a message	Amy imprinted each bookmark with her name. Each bookmark was imprinted with her name.

imprison somebody in something	to lock someone up in something	The authorities imprisoned him in a separate cell. Bob imprisoned Timmy in the closet for an hour.

improve (up)on something	to make something better (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Do you really think you can improve upon this song? No one can improve on my favorite melody.

improvise on something	[for a musician] to create a new piece of music on an existing musical theme	For an encore, the organist improvised on "Mary Had a Little Lamb." She chose to improvise on an old folk theme.

inaugurate somebody as something	to install or introduce someone as something	The club inaugurated Amy as the new president. We will inaugurate Ken as vice president.

incapacitate somebody (for something) (for a period of time)	to make someone physically unfit for [doing] something for a period of time	The accident incapacitated Rick for further work for a year. Sam's carelessness incapacitated Frank for a month.

incarcerate somebody in something	to imprison someone in something	The sheriff incarcerated Lefty in the county jail. He had wanted to incarcerate Max in the jail too.

inch along	To move along very slowly	Traffic was inching along this morning because of the accident.
inch along (something)	to move slowly along something little by little	The cat inched along the carpet toward the mouse. Traffic was inching along.

inch away	To back off; To move away	The president has begun to inch away from his pledge not to spend more money on the war.

inch back	to move back very slowly	The trainer inched back from the angry tiger. The tiger inched back and sprang.

inch by !

inch forward	to move forward very slowly	Inch forward very slowly, and try not to make any noise. The cat inched forward, taking care not to alert the bird to its presence.

inch over	to move over a tiny bit	Could you inch over a little? I need just a little more room. Please inch over a little.

incite somebody	to something to excite or provoke someone to something	The radicals tried to incite the students to violence. The students were incited to violent behavior by the lecturer.

incline away (from something/somebody)	to lean or slope away from someone or something	I inclined away from her to avoid her alcohol breath. The land inclined away from the house.

incline forward	to lean forward; to slant forward	The earthquake-ravaged building inclined forward a little bit more and looked as if it was going to fall. My chair inclined forward and I kept feeling as if I were going to fall off.
incline something forward	to lean something forward; to make something slant forward	Incline the light forward a little bit, so you can see better. The fence had been inclined slightly forward to make it harder to climb.

incline toward something/somebody	to favor or "lean" toward choosing someone or something	I don't know which to choose. I incline toward Terri but I also favor Amy. I am inclining toward chocolate.
incline toward something/somebody	to lean or slant toward someone or something	The piece of scenery inclined toward Roger very slowly and he jumped out of the way just in time. The tree inclined toward the direction of the wind.

include somebody in (something)	to invite someone to participate in something	Let's include Terri in the planning session. Without asking, Henry included himself in the group going on a picnic.

include somebody out (of something)	to exclude someone from something (Jocular)	I am not interested in your games. Include me out of them. Include me out too.

include something/somebody among something	to count someone or something as a member of a group or collection	I am happy to include you among my friends. Do you include chocolate among your favorite flavors?

incorporate something/somebody in(to) something	to build someone or something into something; to combine someone or something into something	We want to incorporate you into our sales force very soon. The prince had incorporated himself into the main governing body.

increase by !
increase something by something	to enlarge something by an amount or degree	They increased the size of the house by two hundred square feet. The engine size on the new model has been increased by a small amount.

increase in something	to grow or expand in some quality	He increased in stature and wisdom. The tree increased in size every year.

increase something (from something) (to something)	to enlarge something from something to something bigger; to enlarge something from one size to a larger size	We plan to increase sales from four million to six million dollars. I increased my bid to two thousand from one thousand.

inculcate somebody with something	to touch or impress someone with some specific knowledge	The teacher sought to inculcate the students with the knowledge they needed. Her parents inculcated her with good manners.

inculcate something in (to) somebody	to instill specific knowledge into someone; to teach something to someone so that it will be remembered	They inculcated good manners into their children all their lives. We tried to inculcate good morals into our students.

indemnify something/somebody against something	to agree to protect someone or something against something, such as damage or a lawsuit	Their employer indemnified them against legal action. We indemnified the publisher against legal trouble.

independent of

indicate something to somebody	to signify something to someone (By speech, writing, or some other sign)	Karen indicated her agreement to the lawyer. Fred indicated his assent to me.

indict somebody for something	[for a legal body] to arraign someone for a crime or name someone formally as the one accused of a crime	The grand jury indicted her for murder. Then they indicted Max for grand larceny.

indifferent to

indoctrinate somebody into something	to teach someone the ways of a group or some activity	The staff sought to indoctrinate Walter into the ways of office procedure. Todd indoctrinated Ken into camp life.

indoctrinate somebody with something	to teach someone the official or fundamental knowledge about something	They indoctrinated all their spies with the importance of being loyal to the death. Ken indoctrinated Todd with revolutionary thinking.

induce labor in somebody	to cause the onset of childbirth in a mother-to-be	They decided to induce labor in the mother-to-be. They decided not to induce labor in Alice.

induct somebody into something	to conscript someone into the armed services; to bring a nonvolunteer into the armed services	They inducted Wally into the army in a little ceremony.
induct somebody into something	to draft someone into something	They inducted a number of new members into the group.
induct somebody into something	to install someone in an office or position	They inducted her into the presidency. The college inducted a new president into office last week.

indulge in something	to choose to eat a certain food or drink something, usually alcohol	I don't usually indulge in hard spirits, but just this once. I indulge in chocolate until I can't hold any more.
indulge in something	to take pleasure in doing something; to do something habitually	No, I don't indulge in contact sports anymore. We don't indulge in strenuous activity.

indulge somebody with something	to grant someone the favor or privilege of something	Please indulge me with this one favor. He always indulged himself with dinner at a nice restaurant when he went into town.

infect somebody with something	to affect someone with something, such as excitement, joy, desires, etc.	Her explosive laughter infected everyone with good spirits.
infect somebody with something	to transmit disease-causing organisms to someone (Someone includes oneself)	Please don't infect me with your cold germs. Somehow, she infected herself with the virus she was studying.

infer something from something	to reach a conclusion from something; to deduce facts from something, such as someone's words, a situation, etc.	What can we infer from the experience we have just had? You should not infer anything from Sue's remarks.

infiltrate into something	and infiltrate something to penetrate a group, secretly, for the purposes of spying or influencing the activities of the group	The spy infiltrated into the enemy headquarters. They infiltrated into the government.
infiltrate into something	to permeate something; to filter into something	Thesoursmell infiltrated into everything in the refrigerator. The paint smell infiltrated into every room in the house.

inflate something with something	to fill up something with air or some other gas	Jerry has to inflate all the balloons with helium. Ken inflated the balloons with gas.
inflate something with something	to make a sum appear larger by including additional irrelevant amounts	I think that she has inflated her expense report with too many miles of travel. Don't inflate your expense report with extra costs.

inflict somebody (up)on somebody	to burden someone with the care or keeping of someone else (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Please don't inflict Bob upon me. My brother inflicted his children on us for the weekend. Well, I certainly don't want to inflict myself on you for the weekend, but I do need a place to stay.
inflict something (up)on something/somebody	to impose something, such as pain, a burden, a problem, etc., on someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	I hate to inflict an additional burden upon you, but someone has to clean the oven. Please don't inflict that on me.

inform on somebody	to tell the authorities about someone; to tattle on someone	I am going to have to inform on you. Liz informed on Ken to their mother.
inform somebody on somebody	to tattle (on someone) (to someone)	I will inform the teacher on you! Billy informed his mother on Bobby.

inform somebody about something/somebody	to tell someone about someone or something	How is my friend Tom getting on? I asked you to inform me about him from time to time. Please inform me about the state of the contract for the book.

inform somebody of something	to tell someone a fact	Please inform Sally of my decision. Sally has been informed of your decision.

infringe (up)on something	to interfere with the rights of someone or with someone's property rights; to encroach on something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	You are infringing upon my right to free speech. lam not infringing on your property. I'm in my own yard.

infuse somebody with something	to teach someone a body of knowledge or a perspective on a body of knowledge	The schools sought to infuse the children with a sense of history. Children should be infused with a respect for the rights of others.
infuse something with something	to make something mix into some liquid	He infused the mixture with a strong solution of soap. The chemical mixture was infused with the other solution.

infuse something into somebody	to instill specific knowledge into a person; to teach someone something very well	The boss infused a lot of company information into the new assistant before she took another job. The teacher infused a lot of knowledge into the students in a short time.
infuse something into something	to mix something into something	You should infuse this mixture into the tea. The tea was infused into the water very slowly.

ingratiate oneself into something	to work hard to bring oneself into the favor of someone	Oh, how he fawns over the guests! Isn't it terrible the way he tries to ingratiate himself into their favor? You will never succeed in ingratiating yourself into my good graces.

ingratiate oneself with somebody	to work oneself into someone's favor	Why do you have to ingratiate yourself with everyone? Don't you know how to be just plain friends? She was very obvious in her effort to ingratiate herself with the boss.

inherit something from somebody	to receive a genetic or behavioral trait from a relative	I inherited my stubbornness from my father's side of the family. My dark hair was inherited from my father.
inherit something from somebody	to receive something from the estate of a person who has died	I inherited this silver bowl from my aunt. Liz inherited her house from her parents.

inhibit somebody from doing something	to keep someone from doing something	We will attempt to inhibit Karen from doing it, but we have no control over her. A serious case of shyness inhibited Harry from participating in things.
inhibit something from doing something	to keep something from happening	We need to inhibit the weeds from further growth. The weeds were inhibited from spreading by the application of a pesticide.

initiate somebody into something	to induct someone into an organization or activity, usually in a ceremony	They will initiate me into the fraternity next week. They initiated all their new members into the club at once.
initiate somebody into something	to introduce someone to the activities associated with a job or other situation	The personnel department will initiate you into our office routines. Our procedures are complicated and it takes weeks to initiate a new employee into all our procedures.

inject (something) into (somebody, something, or some creature)	to give a hypodermic injection of something to someone or an animal	The nurse injected the medicine into my arm. He injected a very large dose into the patient.
inject something into something	to put something, such as humor, excitement, etc., into a situation	Let's inject a little humor into this dismal affair. She likes to inject a lot of excitement into her books.
inject something into something	to squirt something, such as oil, water, etc., into something	The pump injected the oil into the wheel bearings when I squeezed the lever. The mechanic injected a solvent into the lock.

ink something in	to fill in an outline with ink	Please ink the drawing in with care. Ink in the drawing carefully.
ink something in	to write something in ink	Please ink your name in on the dotted line. Now, ink in your signature on this line right here.

inlay something with something	to decorate something by cutting in a design and filling the cut with some decorative substance	The workers inlaid the tabletop with bits of polished seashell. The tabletop was inlaid with a lovely design.

inoculate somebody against something	to immunize someone against a disease	We need to inoculate all the children against whooping cough. Have you been inoculated against measles?

inoculate somebody with something	to use a particular substance in immunizing someone against a disease	Donna inoculated Richard and Nancy with yellow fever vaccine for their trip. She also inoculated Sam with something to prevent malaria.

ins and outs (of something)	the correct and successful way to do something; the special things that one needs to know to do something	I don't understand the ins and outs of politics. Jane knows the ins and outs of repairing computers.

inscribe something into something	to write or engrave a dedication on a gift to someone (Emphasis is on the act of inscribing)	It was a lovely watch. I asked them to inscribe something into the back, so I could remember the occasion. My initials were inscribed into the wristband.

inscribe something on(to) something	to write or engrave certain information on something (Emphasis is on the message that is inscribed)	The jeweler inscribed Amy's good wishes onto the watch. I inscribed my name on my tools.

inscribe something with something	to engrave something with a message	Could you please inscribe this trophy with the information on this sheet of paper? I inscribed the bracelet with her name.

insert (something) between (something and something else)	to put something in between things	Insert this marker between pages ten and eleven. A marker was inserted between the pages.

insert something in (to) something	to push or stick something into something	Insert the card into the slot and pull the lever. Insert the coins in the machine. I need to insert another paragraph into this article.

insinuate oneself into something	to work oneself into a group or situation	She had sought for years to insinuate herself into Terry's organization. Must you always insinuate yourself into my set of friends?

insist (up)on something	to demand something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	I want you here now! We all insist upon it! I insist on it too. The teacher insists on our being on time to class. He insists on coming too.

inspire somebody with something	to use something to inspire someone; to stimulate or encourage someone with something	The president inspired us all with patriotic speeches. She inspired us all with her story of heroism.

inspire something in somebody	to stimulate a particular quality in someone	You do not particularly inspire trust in me. She inspires fear in me.

install somebody as something	to inaugurate or launch someone into the role of something	The board installed Jerry as the new parliamentarian. She installed herself as the boss of the kitchen and wouldn't allow anyone else in.

install something in something/somebody	to insert or build something into someone or something	We are going to install a trash compactor in our kitchen. The doctors installed a pacemaker in Donald.

instigate somebody to do something	to prompt someone to do something; to urge or cause someone to do something	Are you the one who instigated Terry to start all this trouble? Did you instigate the children to do this?

instill somebody with something	to imbue or impress someone with something	Her story instilled us all with courage. She instilled us with courage.

instill something in (to) somebody	to impress something into someone's mind	You need to remember your manners. I want to instill that into you. Good manners were instilled in me at home.
instill something in(to) something	to add something to a situation	The presence of the mayor instilled a legitimacy into the proceedings. Sharon sought to instill a little levity in the meeting.

institute something against something/somebody	to initiate something against someone or something	The hospital decided to institute proceedings against her for failing to pay her bill. The prosecutor instituted a case against the county board.

instruct somebody in something	to teach someone about something	Amy will instruct you in the way to hang paper. The manager instructed Ken in the best method of entering data into the computer.

insulate something/somebody against something/somebody	to protect someone or something against the effect of someone or something	Use an extra blanket to insulate the baby against the cold. John is a bad influence on the children, and I've taken care to insulate them against him. We insulated the children from the effects of John and his bad habits.

insure against
insure against something	to guard or protect against something	You must insure against theft and fire. I will insure against all risks.
insure something/somebody (against something) (for something)	to provide insurance for someone or something against certain perils up to a certain amount of money	I insured my wife against accidental death for $100,000. We insured the car for its current value against all losses.

insure something/somebody with something	to provide insurance for someone or something from a specific company	I insured Amy with a fine old insurance company. We insured the car with Acme Insurance in Adamsville.

integrate somebody with somebody	to mix people together; to unify people into one group	The new regional YMCA will help Hispanics integrate with others in our community. They integrated themselves with the people already in attendance.
integrate something with something	to merge things together; to join things into one	I want to integrate the accounting department with the auditing department to save a little money. They integrated your department with mine.

integrate something/somebody into something	to combine someone or something into something; to work someone or something into something	We sought to integrate Amy into the everyday affairs of the company. We sought to integrate the new family into the ways of the community.

intend something as something	to mean something to serve as something	We intend this money as a gift. Do not even think about paying it back. This money is intended as a gift.

intend something for something/somebody	to mean for someone or something to get something	I intended this one for you. I'm sorry I failed to give it to you in time. Aunt Em intended this cake for the county fair, but you can have it instead.

inter somebody in something	to bury someone in something or in some place	They chose to inter her in the family burial plot. She was interred in the vault with the rest of the family.

interact with somebody	to converse with and exchange ideas with someone	In act two, I want Terri to interact with Amy a little more. They act as if they never even met each other. The students will interact with one another in their study projects.
interact with something	to have a reciprocal action with something; to react with something (Often refers to the negative consequences of interaction)	Witt this drug interact with coffee? This drug will not interact with your current medication.

intercede (for somebody) (with something/somebody)	to intervene on behalf of someone with someone or a group; to plead someone's case with someone or a group	I will intercede for Charlotte with the council. Tom interceded with Fred for Sharon, who was too shy to speak for herself.

interchange (somebody) with (somebody else)	to exchange one person for another	I interchanged Sally with Roger for the honor of being first speaker. Roger has been interchanged with Sally.
interchange something with something	to exchange one thing for another	Please interchange the orange one with the purple one. The orange one has been interchanged with the red one.

interest in	He is interested in being a scientist.
interest somebody in something	to cause someone to wish to purchase something	Could I interest you in something with a little more style to it? Can I interest you in some additional insurance on your life?
interest somebody in something/somebody	to arouse the interest of someone in someone or something	Yes, lean recommend someone for you to hire. Could I interest you in Tom? He's one of our best workers. Can I interest you in checking out a book from the library?

interested in
interested in something/somebody

interface something/somebody with something/somebody	to bring about a complex connection of people and things, in any combination (Originally having to do with computers)	Let's interface Walter with the staff from the main office. I want to interface my data with Sam, who has some relevant statistics from prior years.
interface with something/somebody	to develop a connection or interaction with someone or something	Call Walter and set up a meeting so we can interface with him. This computer is meant to interface with as many as five others just like it.

interfere in something	to meddle in something; to become involved in someone else's business	Don't interfere in my business! Are you interfering in this matter again?

interfere with something/somebody	to meddle with something or someone's affairs	Please do not interfere with us. Are you interfering with my project?
interfere with/in

interject somebody into something	to force someone into something, usually into someone else's business	I am going to have to interject Fred into this matter before it gets out of hand. I hate to interject myself into your affairs, but I have something to say.
interject something into something	to volunteer information or a comment into a conversation	We can always count on Liz to interject something sensible into our discussions. At last, something sensible has been interjected into our discussions.

interlace something with something	to weave something into something else	I will interlace some silver thread with the white yarn. The manufacturer had interlaced a silver thread into the yarn.

intermarry with somebody	[for members of a group] to marry into another group, race, or clan	Our people don't intermarry with people of that clan. They do not intermarry with other groups on purpose.

intermingle something with something	to mingle or merge things with things	Don't intermingle the U.S. mail with the interoffice mail. The office mail had been intermingled with the regular mail!
intermingle with somebody	to mingle or merge with people	The mugger intermingled with the people on the street and could not be recognized. Let's intermingle with the guests.

intern somebody in something	to detain or imprison a person in something	The government interned the enemy prisoners in the camps for a few months. He was interned in a prison camp during the war.

interpose something in (to) something	to introduce something into something; to put a question into a conversation	The chairman interposed a question into the discussion. May I interpose an observation in the proceedings?

interpose something/somebody between people or things	to put someone or something between people or things, in any combination	I do not wish to interpose Randy between the twins. We will not interpose our own standards between these two warring factions.

interpret for somebody	to translate speech in a foreign language for someone (Interpreting is done in real time)	Nina interpreted for Michael, since he understood very little Russian. Is there someone who can interpret for me?
interpret something for somebody	to explain something unclear to someone	Let me interpret the instructions for you. The instructions have been interpreted for me by the manager.
interpret something for somebody	to translate a foreign language for someone (Interpreting is done in real time)	Couldyou interpret the ambassador's address for me? Nina interpreted the director's greetings for the visitors.

interpret something as something	to assume that something means something	Don't interpret what I just said as criticism. It will be interpreted as criticism no matter what you say.

intersperse something among something	to place something among things at random	We interspersed a few chocolate dough nuts among all the plain ones. Some chocolate ones had been interspersed among the plain ones.

intersperse something between something	to place things between other things, perhaps regularly or in a pattern	We interspersed an onion plant between each pair of plants. Onions had been interspersed between every two marigold plants.

intersperse something throughout something	to put things throughout something	He interspersed recommendations for a better life throughout the book. Good advice had been interspersed throughout the book.

intersperse something with something	to provide or bestow something with something	You should intersperse some red flowers with the orange ones. The book was interspersed with good advice.

intertwine something with something	to mingle or twist something together with something else	She intertwined the flowers with the sprigs of greenery, making a lovely wreath. The flowers were intertwined with sprigs of greenery.
intertwine with something	to twist together with something else	The vines intertwined with the ropes and cables that had once held the beached raft together. The cables from the two cranes intertwined with each other, causing a serious accident.

intervene between (somebody and somebody else)	to intercede between someone and someone else	I decided to intervene between Ralph and his brother, who were arguing endlessly. There was no point in intervening between Bill and Bob.

intervene in something	to get involved in something	I will have to intervene in this matter. It's getting out of hand. I want to intervene in this before it becomes a major problem.

intervene with something/somebody	to step into a matter concerning someone or something	Megan said she would intervene with the bank manager on our behalf. Do I need to intervene with this process?

interview (with somebody) for something	[for a person seeking employment] to discuss employment in a particular job with an employer	She interviewed with the civic opera company for a job in the business department. I interviewed with Roger for the job.
interview somebody for something	[for an employer] to discuss employment in a particular job with a person seeking employment	We will interview her for the manager's job. We will interview the rest of them for the position tomorrow.

intimate something to somebody	to suggest or imply something to someone	What are you intimating to me? I intimated nothing at all to you.

intimidate somebody into something	to threaten or frighten someone into doing something	Do you think you can intimidate me into working for you? We weren't intimidated into doing it.

intimidate somebody with something	to threaten or frighten someone with something	Please don't try to intimidate me with your silly threats! We hadn't been intimidated with their threats.

intrigue (with somebody) (against somebody)	to conspire with someone against someone	You are guilty of intriguing with an enemy against the government. I did not intrigue against anyone.
intrigue somebody with something/somebody	to fascinate someone with someone or something	Walter intrigued the baby with his keys and funny faces. The king intrigued the guests with a seductive dancer who had trained in the Far East.

introduce (somebody) to (somebody else)
introduce somebody to somebody	to make someone acquainted with someone else	I would like to introduce you to my cousin, Rudolph. Allow me to introduce myself to you.
introduce somebody to something/somebody	Mary introduced her grammar teacher to Michael.

introduce somebody into something	to bring someone into something; to launch someone into something	Tony introduced Wally into his club. You do not wish me to introduce myself into local social life, do you?
introduce something into something	to bring something into something or some place; to bring something into something as an innovation	The decorator introduced a little bit of bright red into the conference room. After I introduced the new procedures into the factory, production increased enormously.

intrude (up)on something/somebody	to encroach on someone or something or matters that concern only someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	I didn't mean to intrude upon you. Please don't intrude on our meeting. Please wait outside.

intrude into something	to get involved in something that is someone else's business	I don't want to intrude into your affairs, but I see that you're short of money. Please don't intrude into this matter.
intrude oneself into something	to work oneself into some matter that is someone else's business	I hate to intrude myself into your conversation, but don't I know you? Please do not intrude yourself into this matter.

inundate something/somebody with something	to flood someone or something with fluid	The river inundated the fields with three feet of water. The storm inundated us with heavy rain.
inundate something/somebody with something	to overwhelm someone with someone or something	They inundated us with mail. The children inundated us with requests for their favorite songs. The citizens inundated the legislature with demands for jobs.

inure something/somebody to something	to accustom someone to someone or something	We wanted to inure you to this kind of problem, but here it is and you must face it. The coach inured the team to the thought of losing. She had long ago inured herself to criticism of this type.

inveigh against something/somebody	to attack someone or something verbally	Why must you always inveigh against Dan whenever I mention his name? Stop inveighing against the government all the time.

inveigle somebody into something	to coax or trick someone into doing something	We tried to inveigle her into attending, but she caught on to us. I was inveigled into doing it.

inveigle somebody out of something	to deceive someone into giving something up	Are you trying to inveigle me out of my money? I was inveigled out of my money by a common thief.
inveigle something out of somebody	to get something away from someone, usually by deception or persuasion	They inveigled a large donation out of Mrs. Smith. The crooks tried to inveigle a fortune out of the old lady.

invest in
invest in something/somebody	to put resources into someone or something in hopes of increasing the value of the person or thing (The emphasis is on the act of investing)	We invested in Tom, and we have every right to expect a lot from him. She invested in junk bonds heavily.
invest somebody's time in something	to put one's time, effort, or energy into a project	Mary invests her time in charity work. I invested five weeks of my time building this model ship.
invest something in something/somebody	to place power or authority under control of someone or something	The constitution has invested certain powers in the federal government and left the rest to the states. The law invests the power to arrest criminals in the sheriffs department.
invest something in something/somebody	to put money, time, effort, etc., into someone or something, hoping for a return	We will invest time and effort in Fred and make him into a recording star. Sharon invested a lot of money in the stock market.

invest somebody with something	to endow someone with something, such as power or privilege	The constitution invests the vice president with the authority to act on the president's behalf in certain conditions. The state has invested me with the authority to unite this couple in marriage.

invite (somebody) to (an event)
invite somebody to (something)	to bid or request someone to come to an event	Shall we invite Sally to the party? I didn't invite her. She invited herself to this affair. Mary invited her grammar class to the lecture.

invite somebody into some place	to bid or request someone to enter a place	Don't leave Dan out there in the rain. Invite him into the house! Oh, do invite in the children!

invite somebody out	to ask someone out on a date	I would love to invite you out sometime. If I did, would you go? Has he ever invited out a girl on a date?

invite somebody over (for something)	to bid or request someone to come to one's house for something, such as a meal, party, chat, cards, etc.	Let's invite Tony and Nick over for dinner. Let's invite over some new people.

invoke something (up)on something/somebody	to call something, such as judgment, power, wrath of God, etc., to deal with someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The duke invoked the wrath of God upon his enemies - ;to no avail. Walter invoked divine assistance on the proceedings, which weren't going very well.

involve somebody in something	to draw someone into a matter or problem	Please don't involve me in this mess. I da not wish to involve myself in Alice's business. I didn't want to involve you in the problem we are having with the police.
involve somebody/something in somebody/something

involve somebody with something/somebody	to cause someone to associate with someone or something	Don't try to involve me with John. I can't stand him. We will try to involve all the teachers with the new association. I will not involve myself with such goings-on.
involve somebody with something/somebody	to connect someone or someone's name to activity (often wrongdoing) associated with someone or something	Don't try to involve Amy with the crime. She is innocent. We involved the committee with the intense lobbying effort, and everyone began to see the extent of its influence.

iron out	to remove small problems or irregularities	The management team IRONED OUT the tax problems before they gave the project the OK.
iron out	to resolve by duscussion/ eliminate differences	The meeting tomorrow will be an opportunity to iron out difficulties.
iron out	to eliminate; to work out	They managed to iron out all the problems before they launched the new product.
iron out something	to do something immediately while you have a good chance of achieving success	You may not get a better offer - I'd strike while the iron's hot, if I were you.
iron out something	to solve all problems that are still left	The two sides need to keep talking until they iron out their differences.
iron something out	to ease a problem; to smooth out a problem (Here problem is synonymous with wrinkle)	It's only a little problem. I can iron it out very quickly. We will iron out all these little matters first.
iron something out	to use a flatiron to make cloth flat or smooth	I will iron the drapes out, so they will hang together. I ironed out the drapes.

isolate something/somebody from something/somebody	to keep people or things separated from one another, in any combination	They isolated everyone from Sam, who was ill with malaria. We isolated the children from the source of the disease.

issue (forth) from !
issue from something	to come out or flow out of something	A delicious perfume issued from Sally's hair as she passed. A wonderful aroma issued from the kitchen as the bread baked.

issue forth	to come out of a place	New initiatives ISSUE FORTH from the government on a daily basis.

issue somebody with something	to provide someone with something; to distribute something to someone	We issued them with the clothes they needed for the trip. Everyone was issued with supplies.

issue something as something	to release or send out something as something	They issued this month's magazine as a special double issue. The publisher issued this month's magazine as the very last one.

issue something to somebody	to distribute or dispense something to someone	The front office issued new assignments to everyone today. New keys were issued to everyone.

itch for something	to desire something	I'm just itching for a visit from Amy. We are itching for some chocolate.


jab at something/somebody	to poke or punch at someone or something	Tom jabbed at Fred. Don't jab at the cat!

jab somebody in something	to poke someone in a particular location on the body	Fred jabbed Tom in the side. He jabbed himself in the hand.

jab somebody with something	to poke or stick someone with something	He jabbed Henry with the rake handle on purpose. The mugger jabbed the victim with a knife.

jab something at something/somebody	to poke someone or something with something	Tom jabbed the stick at the dog. I jabbed my fist at Walter.

jab something into something	to stab something into something	Billy jabbed his spoon into the gelatin. He jabbed in his spoon. He jabbed it in.

jab something out	to thrust something out	Molly jabbed her fist out suddenly. She jabbed out her fist.

jabber about something/somebody	to talk or chat very informally about someone or something	Who are they jabbering about? Those kids are jabbering about school again.
jabber about something/somebody	to talk unintelligibly about someone or something	Is she jabbering about whatever comes to mind? She is jabbering about something, but we can't understand her.

jack around	to make trouble for someone, fail to keep promises	Do not listen to him- he always JACKS people AROUND.
jack around	to waste time	Stop jacking around and get some work done! The kids spend most of the day jerking around.
jack somebody around	to give someone a difficult time; to harass someone	Come on! Stop jacking me around! Max started jerking Lefty around, and it looked as if there was going to be trouble. You jack around everyone you know!

jack in	to quit, give up	I JACKED my job IN because my boss refused to give me a raise.

jack of !

jack somebody up	to excite or stimulate someone, possibly with drugs	Tom jacked up his buddy by talking to him. Tom jacked up Fred with a lot of encouragement.
jack somebody up	to motivate someone; to stimulate someone to do something	The mail is late again today. We'll have to jack those people up at the post office. I guess I'll have to jack up the carpenter again to repair my stairs.
jack something up	to raise something up on a mechanical lifting device	Now I have to jack the car up, so I can change the tire. Please jack up the car.
jack something up	to raise the price of something	The store keeps jacking prices up. The grocery store jacked up the prices again last night.
jack up	to increase sharply	They have JACKED UP the price of oil this month.
jack up	to inject illegal drugs	He's a heroin addict and JACKS UP four times a day.
jack up	to raise a car to be able to do mechanical work	We JACKED the car UP and changed the tyre.
jack up	to raise (a physical object, a price, etc.)	The hotels around here usually jack up their prices during the summer season.
jack up something	every single person	If you sack me the others will walk out too, every man jack of them. Every last man of us is ready to fight for their country.
jack up something	to increase something steeply	Credit card companies have jacked up interest rates on most of their accounts. The company decided to jack up the amount of protein in its animal feed.

jam on	to apply or operate something forcefully	Jack JAMMED ON the brakes when the rabbit ran in front of his car.

jam something (up) with something	to clog something with something	Time had jammed the pipe up with rust. Time had jammed up the pipe with rust. Jam the hole with a cloth so nothing else will leak out.
jam with somebody	to play music in an improvised band with someone	Andy loves to jam with the other students. Let's set up a time when we can jam with the others.

jam something together	to assemble something hastily or carelessly	The fragile contents were just jammed together in one box and everything was broken. The thing was just jammed together with no care at all.
jam something/somebody together	to pack people or things close together	The usher jammed everybody together so more people could be seated. Don't just jam the boxes together! Sort them out first.

jam something up	to clog up something; to impede or block the movement of or through something	Rachel jammed traffic up when her car stalled. All the leaves and branches jammed up the sewer.
jam something up	to force something upwards in haste or anger	Who jammed the window up? Wally jammed up the window and nearly broke it.
jam something up something	to thrust something up something	She poked the broom handle up the chimney, hoping to force the bird to fly out. She jammed it up a few times, but it had no effect.

jam something/somebody (into something)	to force or compress someone or something into something or some place	Sam jammed all his clothes into the canvas bag. The conductor jammed all the passengers into one car. Don't jam in everything! They had to jam themselves into the tiny room, because there was no other place to meet.

jangle on something	to irritate someone's nerves; to make someone nervous	All that noise jangles on my nerves. Too much chattering jangles on Ken's nerves.
jangle on something	to ring a bell incessantly	Will you stop jangling on that doorbell! Who is jangling on that bell?

jar against something/somebody	to bump against someone or something	The guest jarred against the wall, knocking a picture askew. Someone jarred against Fran, almost knocking her over.

jar on something/somebody	to bother someone or some-one's nerves (Similar to jangle on something)	Her voice really jars on me. My brash manner jars on her, I guess.

jaw about something/somebody	to talk aimlessly about someone or something	Do we have to keep jawing about Tom all day? Stop jawing about your problems and set about fixing them.

jaw at somebody	to lecture at someone; to talk endlessly to someone	Please stop jawing at me. You are jawing at me too much lately.

jaw away	to talk just for the point of talking rather than having anything to say	That shows that your interest is not in helping the student, but in JAWING AWAY.

jaw somebody down	to talk someone down; to wear someone down talking	We'll try to jaw him down. If that doesn't work, I don't know what we will do. We will jaw down the objectors.

jazz something/somebody up	to make someone or something more exciting or sexy; to make someone or something appeal more to contemporary tastes	Let's jazz this room up a little bit. They jazzed up Donna till she looked like a rock star.
jazz up	to make something more interesting or attractive	The show was getting stale so they JAZZED it UP with some new scenes.
jazz up something	to alert; having a positive state of mind	I am jazzed up and ready to face life. Those guys were jazzed and ready for the game.
jazz up something	enhanced; with something added; made more enticing	The third act was jazzed up with livelier music.
jazz up something	forged or altered	Better not try to cash a jazzed check at this bank.
jazz up something	intoxicated	Dave was a bit jazzed up, but not terribly. Gert was jazzed out of her mind.
jazz up something	to make something more interesting, exciting, or stylish	She uses a basic recipe and jazzes it up with chocolate chips, apples, or bananas. My daughters think I should jazz up my wardrobe.

jealous of
jealous of somebody

jeer at something/somebody	to poke fun at someone; to make rude sounds at someone	Please stop jeering at my cousin! The others just jeered at my idea.

jerk off	to rub your sex organs with your hand	The only naked male I saw before I got married was a farm worker jerking off in a barn.
jerk something off (of) something/somebody	to snatch or quickly pull something off someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Alice jerked the top off the box and poured out the contents. She jerked off the box top.

jerk somebody around	an automatic or reflex reaction; an immediate reaction made without examining causes or facts	With one of his typical knee-jerk reactions, he said no immediately, citing some moral argument that no one understood.
jerk somebody around	to deceive someone about whether or not you intend to do something	They've been jerking us around for a long time, first by not offering us a contract or then by saying they won't sign one.
jerk somebody around	to hassle someone; to waste someone's time	Stop jerking me around and give me my money back. They sure like to jerk around people in that music shop.

jerk something away (from somebody, something, or an animal)	to snatch something away or quickly pull something back from someone or an animal	I jerked the bone away from the dog. Kelly jerked the ant poison away from the child. Mary jerked her hand away from the fire.

jerk something out of something/somebody	to pull something out of someone or something quickly	The doctor jerked the arrow out of Bill's leg. He jerked out the arrow.
jerk something/somebody out of something	to pull someone or something out of something sharply and quickly	She jerked the baby out of the crib and ran from the burning room. I jerked the puppy out of the mud. She jerked out the puppy before it got soaked.

jerk something up	to lift up something, such as ears, quickly	The dog jerked its ears up. The dog jerked up its ears when it heard the floor creak. The soldier jerked his binoculars up to try to see the sniper.
jerk something up	to pull something up quickly	He jerked his belt up tight. He jerked up the zipper to his jacket.

jest about something/somebody	to make jokes about someone or something	There is no need to jest about Lady Bracknell. I wish you would not jest about that.

jest at something/somebody	to make fun of someone or something	Please don't jest at my cousin. Is someone jesting at my hairdo?

jest with somebody	to joke with someone; to try to fool someone	Surely you are jesting with me. Don't jest with me!

jet from something	to spurt from something	Water jetted from the broken pipe. A column of water jetted from the top of the fountain.

jibe with something	[for something] to agree with something	Your story doesn't jibe with what we heard from the arresting officer. Her tale jibes with yours quite well.

jockey around	to move around as if trying to get into a special position	I spent most of the movie jockeying around, trying to get comfortable. She always has to jockey around a bit when she is getting into a parking place.
jockey something around	to maneuver something around; to manage something	We had to jockey our bikes around a number of stalled cars. We jockeyed around a few can to make room for the bus in the parking lot.

jockey for !

jockey something/somebody into position	to manage to get someone or something into a desirable position (See also jockey for position)	The rider jockeyed his horse into position. Try to jockey your bicycle into position so you can pass the others.

jog along	to trot or run along at a slow pace	She was jogging along quite happily. I had been jogging along for a few minutes when my shoelaces broke.

join (somebody) with (somebody else)	to connect things or people	I joined Fred with the others. We joined the older puppies with the full-grown dogs.
join (up) with something/somebody	to bring oneself into association with someone or something	I decided to join up with the other group. Our group joined with another similar group.

join (something and something else) together	to connect or unite things	We joined the pipe and the hose together. He joined together all the blue wires and the red ones.

join (something) to (something else)	to connect something to something else	We joined our club to the other club. We joined our chorus to the other chorus, making a huge singing group.

join in	to participate	She was too shy to join in the game. My I join in the discussion?
join in	to take part with others in an activity	We play touch football on Saturdays if the weather is good, so bring sneakers with you and join in.
join in (with something)	to participate in doing something	The older boys joined in with the singing. I'm glad they joined in. We needed basses.

join of !

join up	to engage in, become a member of	John was in the army and Tom joined up as soon as he left school.
join up	to meet and unite with	The two groups of tourists joined up at the hotel.
join up	to become a member of the military	Levy joined up in World War II, received his citizenship and ended up a corporal in the combat engineers.
join up	to join some organization	The club has opened its membership rolls again. Are you going to join up? I can't afford to join up.

joke (with somebody) (about something/somebody)	to quip with someone about someone or something; to make verbal fun with someone about someone or something	I was joking with Tom about the performance. I joked about Andy with Fran.

joke about

joke around	be funny, or try to	He's always JOKING AROUND in class.
joke around	To kid. To be humorous	He was just joking around, but his girlfriend didn't find it funny.

jolt somebody out of something	to startle someone out of inertness	The cold water thrown in her face was what it took to jolt Mary out of her deep sleep. At the sound of the telephone, he jolted himself out of his stupor.

jolt to !

jostle somebody around	to push or knock someone around	Please don't jostle me around. Don't jostle around everyone!

jostle somebody aside	to push or nudge someone aside	Poor little Timmy was jostled aside by the crowd every time he got near the entrance. The big kids jostled aside all the little ones.

jostle with somebody	to struggle with someone	Andy jostled with Fred for access to the door. Timmy and Bobby jostled with one another while they were waiting to get in.

jot down	to make a quick note	I JOTTED DOWN her number on a scrap of paper and I can't find it now.
jot down	to take quick notes	I jotted down the address while watching the programme on TV.
jot something down	to make a note of something	This is important. Please jot this down. Jot down this note, please.

judge between (something/somebody and something/somebody else)	to decide between people or things, in any combination	You can't expect me to judge between apples and oranges, can you? Can you judge between the prosecution and the defense?

judge something on !

juice something back	to drink all of something alcoholic, quickly	He juiced a beer back. Max juiced back another beer.

juice something up	to make something more powerful	How much did it cost to juice this thing up? Wally juiced up his car.
juice something up	to turn on the electricity to something	It's time to juice the stage lights up. Juice up the stage lights.
juice up	to make something more exciting or perform better	I need to buy some memory to JUICE my computer UP.
juice up	to drink one or more alcoholic drinks	Hey, man, let's go out and juice up tonight. Stop juicing up every night.
juice up something	if you leave someone to stew in their own juice, you leave them to worry about something bad that has happened or something stupid they have done	She'll calm down - just leave her to stew in her own juices for a bit.
juice up something	to be left alone to suffer one's anger or disappointment	John has such a terrible temper. When he got mad at us, we just let him go away and stew in his own juice. After John stewed in his own juice for a while, he decided to come back and apologize to us.
juice up something	to make something more interesting or exciting	The team's new forward has juiced up their games with fast passing and running. She finds songs no one remembers and juices them up with modern rhythms.

jumble something together	to assemble something clumsily and hastily	They just jumbled some holiday decorations together. It really wasn't very well done. I hope this airplane wasn't jumbled together as badly as this meal.
jumble something/somebody together	to mix people or things together randomly into a hodgepodge	They just jumbled everything together and made a real mess. The army just jumbled everybody together, no matter what their skills and talents were.

jumble something up	to make a hodgepodge out of things	Who jumbled my papers up? Who jumbled up all my papers?

jump (down) (from something)	to jump downward off something	A small mouse jumped down from the shelf. A tiny mouse jumped from the shelf.

jump all over	to seriously scold	She jumped all over me when I got home at 3:00 AM last Tuesday.

jump at	to accept eagerly	I would JUMP AT the chance to go and live in Japan.
jump at	to willingly seize/ accept the opportunity	George jumped at the chance to go to Australia with his best friends.

jump in	to enter a conversation	He JUMPED IN and told them exactly what he thought.

jump on	to criticize, attack	Everyone JUMPED ON me when I raised the issue.

jump to !

justify something by something	to try to explain why something needs doing or why it is acceptable to do something	You cannot justify violence by quoting proverbs. Your action was totally justified by the circumstances.

justify something to somebody	to explain something to someone and show why it is necessary	Please try to justify this to the voters. I can justify your action to no one.

jut out (over something/somebody)	to stick out over someone or something	The roof of the house jutted out over the patio. I'm glad the roof jutted out and kept us dry during the brief storm.

juxtapose something/somebody to something/somebody	to place people or things next to each other, in any combination (Also implies that the placing or arranging is done carefully)	I went to the meeting room early so I could juxtapose myself to the head of the table. I juxtaposed the chair to the view out the window.


keel over	(slang) to die suddenly	The old man simply keeled over on the sidewalk from a heart attack, I suppose.
keel over	to calm and not likely to change suddenly	My main priority is to keep my life on an even keel for the sake of my two boys.
keel over	to fall to the ground	The drunk KEELED OVER when trying to leave the pub.
keel over	to surrender, give in	He was going to confront his boss, but KEELED OVER and did not mention the matter.
keel over	to fall down suddenly because of illness or weakness	Working outside in this heat, she was afraid someone would keel over.
keel over	to fall over and faint	One of the dancers keeled over from the heat.
keel over	to remain cool and calm (Originally nautical)	If Jane can keep on an even keel and not panic, she will be all right. Try to keep on an even keel and not get upset so easily.
keel over	to turn upside down	The boat KEELED OVER in the storm and the crew drowned.
keel over	[for a person] to fall over or fall down in a faint or in death	It was so hot in the room that two people just keeled over.
keel something over	to push something over	He leaned on the flimsy wall and keeled it right over. The high wind keeled over that sorry old fence.

keen on something/somebody	to be enthusiastic about someone or something	I'm not too keen on going to Denver. Sally is fairly keen about getting a new job. Mary isn't keen on her new boss.

keep (something) for (somebody)

keep (something) under !

keep (something/somebody) within !

keep around	to keep something near you	I KEEP a dictionary AROUND when I'm doing my homework.
keep around	to have handy; To have access to	I like to keep some change around to do laundry.

keep at	to continue with something difficult	She found the course hard but she KEPT AT it and completed it successfully.
keep something/somebody at !

keep away	don't allow someone near something	Medicines should always be KEPT AWAY from children.
keep away	to prevent from/avoid being near
keep away from somebody	I don't like John's attitude. I want to keep away from him.

keep back	to maintain a safe distance	The police told the crowd to KEEP BACK from the fire.
keep back	to maintain a distance	Keep back - that driver seems like he's drunk.
keep back	to withhold

keep down	not to increase
keep down	not vomit	The food was so horrible that I struggled to KEEP it DOWN.

keep for somebody	Michael will be out of town for the summer. Mary willkeep his cat for him while he is gone.

keep from	to control yourself, refrain	I could not KEEP FROM arguing with her.
keep something from somebody	to not tell	We kept our relationship from our parents for two years.

keep in	to not allow someone out	The teacher KEPT the students IN after school because they had misbehaved.

keep off	to avoid (a topic); stay away
keep off	to not talk about	She KEPT OFF the subject of her divorce.
keep off	to not tread on something	KEEP OFF the grass in the park, please.

keep on	to continue	He KEPT ON trying and succeeded in the end. He kept on talking until I told him to stop. It's a little chilly in here, so I better keep my coat on. Just keep on practicing your scales by simply playing them up and down.
keep on	to continue doing something	I told him to be quiet but he kept on making noise. We keep on working. Keep on stirring until the liquid comes to a boil.
keep on	to learn English, you must keep on studying. You can't stop after a few months.

keep out	to not allow someone to enter	The police KEPT the demonstrators OUT of the building.
keep out	to prevent from entering	Your job is to keep all the underage kids from entering the club.
keep somebody/something out	to stop from entering	Try to keep the wet dog out of the living room.

keep somebody/something up to date	to provide the latest information to someone or for something	Every week I have to keep the lists up to date by adding or deleting names. The company has a computer wizard on the staff who keeps us up to date on the latest in electronics.

keep something on an even keel	to keep something in a steady and untroubled state	The manager cannot keep the firm on an even keel any longer. When the workers are unhappy, it is difficult to keep the factory on an even keel.

keep something under !

keep something up	to continue at the same rate	If you keep those results up you will get into a great college.

keep something/somebody still	and hold someone or something still	to restrain or control someone or something so that the person or thing cannot move. Please keep your foot still. It makes me nervous when you wiggle it. You have to hold the nail still if you want to hit it.
keep something/somebody still	and keep someone or something quiet to make someone or something silent or less noisy	Can you please keep the baby still? Keep that stereo quiet!

keep to	to stay within limits	Please KEEP TO the path.
keep to the straight and narrow	to behave properly and correctly; to stay out of trouble	If you keep to the straight and narrow, you can't help but win in the end. I always keep to the straight and narrow.

keep up	to continue, carry on
keep up	to not let someone go to bed	My neighbors KEPT me UP till after 4 am with their loud music last night.
keep up	to keep (someone) up; To make someone stay awake	The party kept me up all night.
keep up	to manage to stay on schedule, or to do the required work on time	I've got too much work! I'm finding it hard to keep up.
keep up at	to continue, not quit	Learning a language is difficult, but if you KEEP UP AT it, you'll succeed in the end.
keep up something; keep something up
keep up with	to move at the same rate	He walks too fast and it's really hard to KEEP UP WITH him.
keep up with	to not to fall behind somebody
keep up with	to stay at the same level as someone or something	Bill walks so fast it's difficult to keep up with him.
keep up with	to stay up to date	It's hard to KEEP UP WITH all the latest improvements and breakthroughs in technology nowadays.
keep up with something/somebody

key in	to enter numbers or information into a computer or electronic system	It took me ages to KEY IN all the information into the database.

key somebody up	to cause someone to be anxious or excited	The excitement of the moment really keyed me up. Thoughts of their vacation keyed up the children so much they couldn't sleep.

key to !

kick about	to discuss	We KICKED the idea ABOUT at the meeting.

kick around	to discuss	We KICKED the idea AROUND.
kick around	to think about	I've been kicking around the idea of writing a book.
kick around with	to spend time with	I used to KICK AROUND WITH them, but haven't seen them for a while.

kick back	to pay someone illegally as part of the price	I had to KICK ten percent BACK to the government official to get the contract.
kick back	to resist	They KICKED BACK when we suggested downsizing.
kick back	to relax	Hey, you're on vacation - just kick back and relax.

kick down	to break something with your feet	The police KICKED the door DOWN.

kick in	to break something with your feet	They KICKED his head IN.
kick in	when a drug starts to take effect	Her hay fever didn't feel half as bad once the antihistamines had KICKED IN.

kick off	to argue, protest and refuse to co-operate	He started KICKING OFF big time when the police tried to arrest him.
kick off	to begin, start	The football match kicked off at 3 p.m.
kick off	to die	He KICKED OFF last month when he had a massive heart attack.
kick off	to start a game of football	The match KICKS OFF at three o'clock.
kick off	to start	They kicked off the fundraiser with a concert.
kick off	when trouble starts	The fight KICKED OFF when he insulted the guy's girlfriend.

kick out	to expel	The family KICKED the au pair OUT when they found out that she was planning to move to work for another household.
kick out	to throw out; To expel	They kicked him out of school.
kick out somebody; kick somebody out

kick over !

kick up	to cause trouble or pain	My back KICKS UP when it gets cold.

kid around	to joke with someone	At the end of the show, the dancers kidded around with the audience and tried to get them to dance.
kid around (with somebody)	to tease and joke with someone	I like to kid around with John. We are great friends. Yes, John and I used to kid around a lot.

kid somebody about something/somebody	to tease someone about someone or something	You wouldn't kid me about Jody, would you? Please don't kid me about my long hair!

kill (somebody or an animal) off	to kill all of a group of people or creatures	Lefty set out to kill Max and his boys off. Something killed off all the dinosaurs.

kill for something	to be willing to go to extremes to get something that one really wants or needs (An exaggeration)	I could kill for a cold beer.

kill somebody with !

kiss off	to consider something to be unimportant or inferior	He KISSED the criticism OFF.
kiss off	to eath (Usually kiss-off)	When the time comes for the kiss-off, I hope I'm asleep. The kiss-off came wrapped in lead, and it was instant.
kiss off	to go away	She finally decided to tell her boss to kiss off.
kiss off	the dismissal of someone or something (Usually kiss-off)	The kiss-off was when I lost the Wilson contract. Pete got the kiss-off and is now looking for a new job.
kiss off	to die	The cat is going to have to kiss off one of these days soon. The cat kissed off after eighteen years of joy and devotion.
kiss off	used to tell someone to go away	He was bugging us, so we told him to KISS OFF.
kiss off somebody/something	to get rid of someone or something	The company plans to kiss off three thousand employees next month. If you raise prices, you'll just be kissing your customers off.
kiss somebody off	to kill someone	Max kissed Lefty off with a small gun he carried in his boot. He kissed off Lefty with a small gun.
kiss something/somebody off	to dismiss someone or something lightly; to abandon or write off someone or something	I kissed off about $200 on that last deal. They kissed me off and that was the end of that job.

kiss somebody on something	to kiss someone on a particular place	He kissed her right on the tip of her nose. She was kissed on the tip of her nose.

kiss something away (from something)	to kiss something and make something bad go away, such as tears, grief, pain, etc.	She kissed the tears of pain and disappointment away from her son's face. She kissed away his tears. She kissed the tears away.

kiss up to	try to get into someone's favor	He is a creep and is always KISSING UP TO the director.
kiss up to somebody	to flatter someone; to curry favor with someone	Edgar is in kissing up to the boss again. Stop kissing up to me.

kiss/say/wave goodbye to something	if you say goodbye to something, you accept that you will not have it any more or that you will not get it	You can say goodbye to your ВЈ10. Tom never repays his debts.

kneel down	to get down on one's knees	Please kneel down and fold your hands. You should at least kneel down and be quiet.
kneel down (before something/somebody)	to show respect by getting down on one's knees in the presence of someone or something	We were told to kneel down in front of the altar. Kneel down when the queen enters!

knit something together	to join things together by knitting	Terry knitted the parts of the sweater together. Sally knitted together the two parts of the glove.

knock into somebody !

knock about	to beat someone	He KNOCKED his brother ABOUT after they argued.

knock around	to discuss casually	We KNOCKED the idea AROUND a bit, but decided not to bother.

knock back	to cost someone a lot of money	Your holiday must have KNOCKED you BACK a bit.
knock back	to finish a drink quickly, drink a lot of alcohol	The pub was closing so we KNOCKED our drinks BACK and left.
knock back	to shock	It really KNOCKED me BACK when I heard they had been killed.

knock down	to demolish	They KNOCKED DOWN the old church and built a block of flats in its place.
knock down	to hit and injure someone	The car KNOCKED her DOWN and she broke her arm.
knock down	to destroy; to knock (someone) down; to cause someone to fall due to a strong hit, etc.	They knocked down that wall during the renovation. He knocked him down with one punch.

knock off	to finish work for the day	We KNOCKED OFF early on Friday to avoid the rush hour queues.
knock off	to produce or create something quickly	I KNOCKED the essay OFF in an hour.
knock off	to reduce the price of something	They KNOCKED ten pounds OFF when I asked for a discount.
knock off	to reduce the time required to do something	The new road KNOCKS an hour OFF the journey.
knock off	to steal	He KNOCKED it OFF and sold it.
knock spots off somebody/something	to be very much better than someone or something else	There's a vegetarian restaurant in Brighton that knocks spots off any round here.

knock out	to hit and make somebody unconscious	The reigning middleweight champion KNOCKED OUT the challenger in the fourth round of the fight.
knock out	to sell, distribute	They are KNOCKING hundreds OUT a day in the sales.
knock out	to make unconscious	The boxing match ended when the German boxer was knocked out in the third round.

knock some into somebody !

knock together	to join houses that had been separate	They KNOCKED TOGETHER two outbuildings and turned them into a home.

knock up	to become or get someone pregnant	She got KNOCKED UP when she was on holiday.
knock up	to play a bit before a match to get ready	The teams KNOCKED UP for a few minutes before the final.
knock up	to produce or create something quickly	They KNOCKED a model UP over the weekend.

knock/lick/whipsomething/somebody into !

knot something together	to tie something together in a knot	Knot these strings together and trim the strings off the knot. Are the ropes knotted together properly? Quickly knot together the two loose ends!

know about

know at !

know something by !

know/learn something (off) by !

knuckle down	if a joke or a remark is near the knuckle, it is about sex in a way that some people find offensive	Some of his jokes were a bit near the knuckle and, unfortunately, I was watching the show with my parents.
knuckle down	to make a great effort	I've got my exams next week and I haven't done much work, so I'd better KNUCKLE DOWN.
knuckle down	to work hard	You're going to have to knuckle down to improve your grades if you want to get into a good college. Volunteers really knuckled down and cleaned up the town after the storm.
knuckle down (to something)	to get busy doing something	I want you to knuckle down to your work and stop worrying about the past. Come on. Knuckle down. Get busy.

knuckle under	to submit to authority	The teacher made the students KNUCKLE UNDER and hand their projects in on time.
knuckle under (to somebody/something)	to accept unwillingly what someone or something demands	We want to reach an agreement, but we won't knuckle under to their demands.
knuckle under (to something/somebody)	to submit to someone or something; to yield or give in to someone or something	You have to knuckle under to your boss if you expect to keep your job. I'm too stubborn to knuckle under.

kowtow to something/somebody	to grovel to someone or something	I won't kowtow to anyone! You don't expect me to go in there and kowtow to that committee, do you?


label something/somebody as something	to designate someone or something as something	She labeled him as an uncouth person. We labeled the committee as a worthless organization.

label something/somebody with something	to mark or identify someone or something with something	They labeled each person who had paid the admission fee with a symbol stamped on the hand. I labeled each book with my name.

lace into something/somebody	to attack, devour, or scold someone or something	We laced into a big meal of pork and beans. The bully punched John once, and then John really laced into him. John lit into him with both fists.
lace somebody into something	to tighten the laces of something someone is wearing	Sally helped Billy lace himself into his boots. The maid laced Gloria into her corset.

lace somebody up	to tie someone's laces; to help someone get dressed in a garment having laces	Would you please lace me up? I can't reach the ties in the back. I laced up Sally, as she requested.
lace something up	to tie the laces of something	Lace your shoes up, Tommy. Lace up your shoes.

lace something with something	to adulterate something with something, often with something alcoholic	Someone laced the punch with strong whiskey. Who laced my coffee with brandy?

lack for something	to lack something	We don't lack for new ideas. We lack for nothing, thank you.

ladle something out of something	to scoop something out of something with a spoon or ladle	Marie ladled the last of the gravy out of the gravy boat and went to the kitchen for more. She ladled out the soup.

ladle something up	to scoop something up in a ladle	Jerry ladled a cool dipper of water up and quenched his thirst. Please ladle up the soup and serve it.

lag behind (somebody/something)	to fall behind in something	I am lagging behind in my car payments. She is lagging behind in her homework assignments.
lag behind (somebody/something)	to not be at the level that someone or something else has already achieved	The pay for government workers lags behind the pay for workers in private industry. He lagged far behind his classmates in reading and math skills.
lag behind (something/somebody)	to linger behind someone or something; to fall behind someone or something	Come on up here. Don't lag behind us or you'll get lost. Please don't lag behind the donkeys. Come up here with the rest of the hikers.

lam into (somebody or an animal)	to attack someone or an animal	Paul was so angry that he lammed into his friend and struck him in the side. The angry coachman lammed into the poor horses.

lament over something/somebody	to sorrow over someone or something	There is no need to lament over Sam. There is nothing that crying will do for him now. She is still lamenting for her cat.

land of !

languish in	to become dispirited in some place; to weaken and fade away in some place	Claire languished in prison for her crime. I spent over three days languishing in a stuffy hotel room. We languished in the airport waiting room while they refueled the plane.
languish in	to suffer neglect in a place	The bill languished in the Senate for months on end. The children languished in the squalid conditions until the court intervened.

languish over something/somebody	to pine over someone or something	There is no point in languishing over Tim. He'll never come back. She wasted half her life languishing over her lost opportunities.

lap (up) against something	[for waves] to splash gently against something	The waves lapped up against the shore softly. The waves lapped against the side of the boat all night long, and I couldn't sleep.

lap of !

lap over (something)	[for something] to extend or project over the edge or boundary of something	The lid lapped over the edge of the barrel, forming a little table. The blanket did not lap over enough to keep me warm.

lap something up	[for an animal] to lick something up	The dog lapped the ice cream up off the floor. The dog lapped up the ice cream.
lap something up	[for someone] to accept or believe something with enthusiasm	Of course, they believed it. They just lapped it up. They lapped up the lies without questioning anything.
lap up	to appreciate something	He LAPPED UP their praise.
lap up something	to believe what is said or written without knowing or caring if it is true	Even if you're lying, there's always someone who will lap it up because most people want to believe you.
lap up something	to enjoy something very much	My dogs lap up whatever attention I can give them.

lapse from !

lapse into something	to weaken or slip into something, especially a coma	The survivor of the crash lapsed into a coma. Aunt Mary lapsed into unconsciousness and died.

lark about	behave in a silly way	The children made me angry because they were LARKING ABOUT.

lark around	behave in a silly way	The students wouldn't stop LARKING AROUND.

lark up!

lash against something	[for something, such as wind or water] to beat or whip heavily against something	The angry waves lashed against the hull of the boat, frightening the people huddled inside. The wind lashed against the house and kept us awake all night.

lash at something/somebody	to thrash or beat someone or something violently	The rain lashed at the windows. The mule driver lashed at his beasts with his whip.

lash back (at something/somebody)	to strike or fight back against someone or something; physically or verbally	Randy lashed back at his attackers and drove them away. If you threaten Fred, he'll lash back.

lash down	to fall heavily (rain)	The rain was LASHING DOWN all day and the roads were flooded.
lash down	to secure something with ropes or cords	We LASHED the tarpaulin DOWN to stop the wind blowing it away.
lash down on something/somebody	[for rain] to beat down on someone or something	The wind and rain lashed down on us. The rain lashed down on the young plants and pounded them into the soil.
lash something/somebody down	to tie someone or something down	The villain lashed Nell down to the railroad tracks. He lashed down the innocent victim. Lash that cask down so it doesn't wash overboard.

lash into	to criticise someone strongly	He LASHED INTO them for messing thins up.
lash into (somebody or an animal)	to attack someone or an animal; physically or verbally	Dad lashed into my brother, who had smashed up the car again. Walter lashed into the cat for tearing the upholstery.
lash into something	to begin to eat something with vigor	Mary lashed into the huge ice cream sundae, and ate almost the whole thing. The workers lashed into their lunches and did not say a word until they had finished.

lash out	to react angrily	He LASHES OUT when things don't go his way.
lash out	to spend a lot of money on luxuries	I LASHED OUT in the sales last week.
lash out	to suddenly become violent	He LASHED OUT and broke the man's nose.
lash out (at somebody/something)	to angrily criticize someone or something (Usage notes: usually criticism of an opinion or statement)	The mayor often lashes out at people who don't agree with him.
lash out (at somebody/something)	to strike out in defense or attack; physically or verbally	Amy was angry with Ed and lashed out at him just to show who was boss. She was so angry with him that she just lashed out against him. Gretchen was fed up with the cat and lashed out savagely in her anger.
lash out against	to criticise something strongly	The press has LASHED OUT AGAINST the policy.
lash out at	to criticise someone or shout at them	She LASHED OUT AT her colleagues when she was sacked.
lash out at	to hit someone suddenly, usually without warning, or try to hit them	He LASHED OUT AT me when I laughed at him.
lash out on	to spend a lot of money buying something	I LASHED OUT a lot ON a new car.

lash something about	to whip or fling something about violently	The big cat lashed its tail threateningly. The strong wind lashed the tall grass about.

lash something together	to tie something or things together	Let's lash these logs together and make a raft. Lash two or three of the poles together to make them stronger.

lash something/somebody to something	to tie someone or something to something	The boys lashed one of their number to a tree and danced around him like savages. Abe lashed the cask to the deck. Frank lashed himself to the mast.

latch on	to understand, often after a long time	They were lying, but it took her ages to LATCH ON.
latch on (to somebody)	to get hold of someone	I don't know where Jane is. Let me try to latch onto her.
latch on to	to understand something, often after a long time	The police didn't LATCH ON TO what the crooks were doing for years.

latch onto	to connect to something	The gecko LATCHED ONTO the ceiling.
latch onto	to decide or realise that something is good or profitable	Oil companies have LATCHED ONTO environmental ideas.
latch onto somebody/something	to become closely connected to someone or something	I knew she would be perfect in the film, so I latched onto her like a magnet. More and more countries latched onto computer technology as an important tool for development.
latch onto something	to begin to understand something	When Fred finally latched onto the principles of algebra, he began to get better grades. Sue doesn't quite latch onto the proper stance in golf.
latch onto something	to obtain something (See also latch on(to someone or something))	I have to latch onto a hundred bucks by Friday night. I latched onto a good book about repairing plumbing.

lather something up	to apply thick soapsuds to something, such as part of the body or all of it	He lathered his face up in preparation for shaving. He lathered up his face.
lather up	and lather oneself up [for one] to apply soap lather to one's body	He will spend a few minutes lathering himself up before he rinses. He lathered up and then shaved.
lather up	[for a horse] to develop a foam of sweat from working very hard	The horses lathered up heavily during the race. Don't let your horse lather up!
lather up	[for soap] to develop thick suds when rubbed in water	This soap won't lather up, even when I rub it hard. When the soap lathers up, spread the lather on your face and rub.

laugh about	Mary and Michael laughed about the article in the newspaper.
laugh about something

laugh at	They laughed at the silly joke.
laugh at something/somebody
laugh at/about

laugh somebody off !

laugh something out !

launch forth (upon something)	to set out on something; to begin on something, such as a journey or a long lecture or sermon (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	We launched forth on our trip before dawn. What time shall we launch forth tomorrow morning?

launch into somebody	to begin presenting a speech or an explanation	As soon as John set forth on his speech, three people walked out. Every time he launches forth on a presentation, it's a half hour before he shuts up.
launch into somebody	to criticize someone severely	He launched into me for not having called or e-mailed in a long time.
launch into somebody	to start out on something, such as a journey	We intend to set forth on our journey very early in the morning. What time will you launch forth on your trip?
launch into something	to start in doing something	Now, don't launch into lecturing me about manners again! Tim's mother launched into a sermon about how to behave at the dinner table.
launch into something	to start something with energy or enthusiasm	She launched into the song as if she couldn't hold herself back. He launched into an attack on all the people who had laughed at his idea.

launch out on something	to start out to do something or go somewhere	When are you going to launch out on your expedition? Ted and Bill launched out on their trip through the mountains.

launch something against something/somebody	to set something going against someone or something	The general launched an attack against the town. Claire launched a gossip attack against James.

lavish something (up)on somebody	to give something freely to someone; to squander something on someone (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The manager lavished all sorts of favors upon the new employee. Susan lavished compliments on the cook.

lay down	to establish rules or procedures	The rules of the sport were LAID DOWN early in the nineteenth century.
lay down	to kill, murder	He got LAID DOWN in a turf war about supplying drugs.
lay down	to establish	If you would like to stay here, we should lay down some rules.

lay emphasis on something	to place emphasis on something; to emphasize something	When you present this explanation, lay emphasis on the matter of personal responsibility. I'm afraid I laid too much stress on the notion of good attendance. If you are really sick, stay home!
lay on somebody/something !
lay on	to organise, supply	They LAID ON a buffet lunch at the conference.

lay into	to criticise angrily	His partner LAID INTO him when he arrived two hours late.
lay into	to criticize (severely)	His mother really laid into him whenever he came home late.

lay off	to make an employee redundant	The hotel LAID OFF twenty staff because tourist numbers were down.
lay off	to (temporarily) suspend someone from work while things are slow	General Motors had to lay off 3,000 workers last month.
lay off	to stop using	You should really lay off the alcohol.

lay out	to spend money	They LAID OUT thousands of pounds on their wedding reception.

lay something to !
lay waste (to something)	to destroy something	Last night, rabbits laid waste to the lettuce I was going to pick today. The army laid waste to the countryside as it moved south.

laze something away	to spend a period of time being lazy	I just love to sit here and laze the day away. I will laze away the entire day.

leach away	[for something] to erode or wash away gradually by leaching	The soft sandstone leached away under the constant rains. The flowerpots sat out in the rain, where all the nutrients in the soil leached away.
leach something away (from something)	to remove something from something by leaching	The heavy rains leached nutrients away from the soil. The rains leached away the nutrients.

leach in (to something)	[for a substance] to seep or penetrate into something	The salt leached into the soil and ruined it. A tremendous amount of salt leached in.

leach out of something	[for a substance] to seep or drain out of something	All the nutrients leached out of the soil and nothing would grow. The phosphorus leached out of the soil after a few years.

lead on	to make someone think that something (romantic) will happen, while knowing that it will not	I thought she really liked me. But she was just leading me on!

lead somebody down !

lead something/somebody (away) (from something/somebody)	to direct or guide someone or something away from someone or something	The officer led the victim's wife away from the accident. The trainer led away the dog from the other animals. We led them away.

lead to	to result in	The investigation LED TO the arrest of a number of suspects.

leaf out	[for a plant] to open its leaf buds	Most of the bushes leaf out in mid-April. The trees leafed out early this year.

leaf through something	to start behaving in a better way	Apparently he's turned over a new leaf and he's not drinking any more.
leaf through something	to turn pages, briefly looking at them	We leafed through some old photo albums. The detective leafed through some papers on the desk, looking for clues to my father's disappearance.

leak in (to something)	[for a fluid] to work its way into something	Some of the soapy water leaked into the soil. The rainwater is leaking in!

leak out	to become public knowledge	The company's plans to close the factory LEAKED OUT and they were very embarrassed.
leak out	[for information] to become known unofficially	I hope that news of the new building does not leak out before the contract is signed. When the story leaked out, my telephone would not stop ringing.
leak out (of something)	[for a fluid] to seep out of something or some place	Some of the brake fluid leaked out of the car and made a spot on the driveway. Look under the car. Something's leaking out.
leak something (out)	to disclose special information to the press so that the resulting publicity will accomplish something (Usually said of government disclosures; Also used for accidental disclosures)	Don't leak that information out. I don't want to be the one to leak it.

leak something to somebody	to tell [otherwise secret] information to someone	The government leaked a phony story to the press just to see how far it would travel. The government leaks things to the press occasionally, just to see the reaction.

leak through something	[for a fluid] to seep through something	Rainwater leaked through the roof. I was afraid that the crushed orange would leak through the paper bag.

lean across something/somebody	to incline oneself across someone or something	She leaned across me to reach the telephone and spilled my wine. Laura leaned across the table and knocked my coffee over.

lean against something/somebody	to prop oneself against someone or something	The child leaned against her sister to keep warm. I leaned against the back of the chair and went right to sleep.
lean something against something/somebody	to prop something against someone or something	She leaned her spade against the house and wiped the sweat from her brow. Bill leaned the mirror against his leg while he screwed the hook into the wall.

lean back	[for someone] to recline backwards, usually in a chair	Lean back and make yourself comfortable. Let's lean back and be comfortable.
lean back (on something/somebody)	to recline backwards, pressing on someone or something	Don't lean back on me! I'm not a chair! Lean back on the couch and tell me what you are thinking.

lean down	to bend over	Lean down and tie your shoe before you trip. He leaned down and picked something up from the floor.

lean forward	to bend forward	Lean forward a minute so I can put a cushion behind your back. When Betsy leaned forward, she lost her balance and fell.
lean something forward	to tilt or bend something forward	Lean the board forward a little bit, please. Someone leaned this panel forward a little too much.

lean in (to something)	to incline or press into something	You have to lean into the wind when you walk or you will be blown over. As you walk into the wind, lean in a little bit. The north wall of the barn leans in a little. Is it going to fall?

lean on	to put pressure on someone to get them to do what you want	The government has denied LEANING ON the Attorney General to get his approval of the war.
lean on somebody	to try to make someone do something; to coerce someone to do something (From lean on someone or something)	If she refuses to do it, lean on her a bit. Don't lean on me! I don't have to do it if I don't want to.
lean on somebody/something	to depend on someone or something	The children leaned on each other for help and comfort. Verplank leaned on his experience as a waiter to figure out how to behave when he met the prince.
lean on somebody/something	to put pressure on someone or something to get what you want	The Spanish teacher had to lean on the school principal to get new textbooks for the class.
lean on something/somebody	to depend on someone or something	You lean on your parents too much. You must be more independent. You can't lean on the government forever.
lean on something/somebody	to incline or press on someone or something	Don't lean on me. I'm not strong enough to support both of us. Lean on the wall and rest a little while.

lean out of something	to hang or bend out of something or some place	She leaned out of the window so she could watch what was going on. Don't lean out of the car window. You will fall.

lean over	to bend over	Lean over and pick the pencil up yourself! I'm not your servant! As Kelly leaned over to tie her shoes, her chair slipped out from under her.
lean over	to tilt over	The fence leaned over and almost fell. As the wind blew, the tree leaned over farther and farther.
lean over backwards	to try very hard bend over backwards (Usage notes: usually used to describe efforts to help or please someone) 	She and her staff will lean over backwards to see that you are satisfied with their services.

lean toward something/somebody	to tend to favor [choosing] someone or something	lam leaning toward Sarah as the new committee head. I'm leaning toward a new committee.
lean toward something/somebody	to incline toward someone or something	Tom is leaning toward Randy. I think he is going to fall on him. The tree is leaning toward the edge of the cliff. It will fall eventually.

leap at something	to quickly and eagerly accept an opportunity jump at something (Usage notes: often used in the form leap at the chance)	I would leap at an opportunity to work for that organization. I leaped at the chance to visit India.
leap at something/somebody	to accept or choose someone or something eagerly	We leapt at Carl when his department offered him to us. When we had the chance to hire Carl, we leapt at it.
leap at something/somebody	to jump toward someone or something	The grasshopper leapt at me and scared me to death. The cat leapt at the mouse and caught it.
leap at the opportunity (to do something)	to accept an opportunity eagerly	Frank leapt at the opportunity to become a commercial artist. It was a great idea and we leapt at the opportunity. I would leap at the chance to go to Moscow. His company proposed to send him to England, and John jumped at the chance.

leap down (from something)	to hop down from something or some place	The performer leapt down from the stage and ran up the aisle. She leapt down and ran away.

leap for !

leap forward	to jump or hop forward	The little creature leapt forward and looked carefully at us. As the frog leapt forward, the kitten jumped straight up and fled.

leap out (of something)	to jump outward from something	A mouse leapt out of the cereal box and frightened everyone. I opened the box and a mouse leapt out.

leap over something	to jump over something	The dog leapt over the hedge and chased the rabbit around the corner of the house. Please don't leap over my roses. You'll damage them.

leap up	to jump upwards	The dog leapt up and licked my cheek. I leapt up so I could see over the wall for just a second.

learn about (something/somebody)	to find out about someone or something	I learned about his problems from his mother. What have you learned about Mr. Franklin and his business dealings? I learned about what causes rain.

learn by something	to learn [something] from some kind of actual experience	The best way to learn is to learn by doing. The best way to learn to sail is to learn by sailing.

learn from something/somebody	to learn [something] from the experience of someone or something	Pay attention to what Sarah does. I think you can learn from her. This was quite an experience, and we all can learn from it.
learn something from something/somebody	to find out something from someone or something	I don't know when the children are due to arrive. See what you can learn from Walter. lam sure we can learn something from this experience.
learn something from the bottom up	to learn something thoroughly, from the very basics; to learn all aspects of something, even the least important ones	I learned my business from the bottom up. I started out sweeping the floors and learned everything from the bottom up.

learn of something/somebody	to find out about someone or something	Fm not in the telephone book. How did you learn of me? How did you learn of our company?

learn something by !

learn something off !

learn to live with something	to learn to adapt to something unpleasant or painful	Finally the doctor told Marion that she was going to have to learn to live with her arthritis. The floor plan of the house we bought is not as spacious as we had thought, but we will learn to live with it.

lease something (out) to somebody	to rent something to someone	The company leases cars out to its customers. Can you lease this building to me for two years? Lease out only the first two floors.

lease something back	to sell something, then rent it from the buyer	We sold the building to a real estate firm and then leased it back. There was some tax saving involved. We leased back the building.

lease something from somebody	to rent something from someone	We decided to lease the building from the owner rather than buying it. The company always leases its cars from the dealership.

leave in !

leave on	to not turn off	LEAVE the TV ON; I want to hear the football results.

leave out	to not include	He was LEFT OUT of the side because he hasn't been playing too well lately.
leave out (of)	to omit/not mention	Tom's name was left out of the report. Leave me out of it, please.
leave out something/somebody; leave something/somebody out

leave somebody to !

lecture at somebody (about something)	to talk to someone about something in the manner of a lecture	There is no need to lecture at me about the problem. I know how serious the matter is. Don't lecture at me all the time!

lecture somebody for something	to give someone a talking-to about something	Please don't lecture me for being late. It won't help now, will it? There is no point in lecturing us for something we didn't do.

leer at somebody	to gaze at someone flirtatiously or with lust	Why are you leering at that woman in the bikini? Stop leering at me!

legislate against something	to prohibit something; to pass a law against something	You can't just legislate against something. You have to explain to people why they shouldn't do it. The Congress has just legislated against insolvent banks.

legislate for something	to pass a law that tries to make something happen	The candidate pledged to legislate for tax relief. We support your efforts to legislate for lower taxes.

lend to somebody/something !
lend itself to something	to be good for a particular use	It was surprising how well her book lent itself to being turned into a film.
lend something to somebody	to make a loan of something to someone	Never lend money to a friend. Would you be able to lend your coat to Fred?

lend something out (to somebody)	to allow someone to borrow something	I lent my tuxedo out to a friend who was going to a dance, and now I haven't anything to wear to the opera. I lent out my copy of the book. Sorry, I lent it out.

lengthen out	to stretch or grow longer	The days began to lengthen out and we knew summer was upon us. As we approached the end of the trail, the distance seemed to lengthen out.

let down	to disappoint, fail to keep an arrangement	She failed to turn up and I felt badly LET DOWN. I won't let you down again. He really let me down by not showing up on Friday. You promised to come to the party, so don't let me down!
let down	to make clothes longer	He's grown so much; we'll have to LET his trousers DOWN.
let down somebody; let somebody down

let under !

let in	to allow someone to enter	The door staff didn't LET him IN the nightclub because he was wearing jeans.
let somebody in	to allow to enter	Can you let the cat in before you go to school?

let off	to not punish	The judge LET him OFF with a fine rather than a prison sentence since it was his first offence.

let on	to tell a secret	I didn't mean to LET ON about the party; I just said it without thinking.
let on	to pretend, act	He let on like he hadn't heard that I had been fired.

let out	to allow to leave or go out	The convict was LET OUT of prison after serving five years of an eight-year sentence.
let out	to make a sound	He LET OUT a huge sigh of relief when he heard the results.
let out	to make clothes bigger	I've put on so much weight that I'm going to have to LET my suits OUT.
let out	to release	They let him out of the hospital on Friday.

let somebody alone	to not to mention or think of someone or something; not even to take someone or something into account (Fixed order)	Do I have a dollar? I don't even have a dime, let alone a dollar. I didn't invite John, let alone the rest of his family.
let somebody alone	to not annoy or interrupt someone leave somebody alone	I tried to keep my promise not to call her, to let her alone to think, but finally I needed to talk to her.
let something/somebody alone	to avoid touching, bothering, or communicating with someone or something	Leave me alone. I don't want your help. Let it alone! Don't touch it! It may be hot!

let somebody down	to fail to support or help, disappoint	I need you to be on time. Don't let me down this time.

let somebody by !

let somebody/something slide	to allow a situation to become slowly worse	We've really let things slide over the past few months. The accounts are in a terrible state.
let somebody/something slide	to not do anything about someone or something	She misbehaved a bit when she got here, and I let her slide because she was in a strange city. It's easy to let exercise slide when you feel bad, but that's when you need it the most. Usage notes: often used in the form let it slide: Kids don't like practicing because of the repetition, and some coaches tend to let it slide.
let somebody/something slide	to slip or glide over something	The car almost slid over the edge of the cliff. We almost slid over the edge.

let up	to lose some intensity	By the time the storm let up, half the city had been flooded.

level off	to stop increasing or being reduced	The price of gas has finally leveled off after going up for several months. Television ratings had leveled off and then dropped slightly.
level off	to try very hard to do something (often + to do sth)	Tickets are quite hard to come by but I'll do my level best to get you one.
level off	[for variation or fluctuation in the motion of something] to diminish; [for a rate] to stop increasing or decreasing	The plane leveled off at 10,000 feet. After a while the workload will level off. Things will level off after we get through the end of the month.
level something off	to make something level or smooth	You are going to have to level the floor off before you put the carpet down. Please level off the floor.

level out	[for something that was going up and down] to assume a more level course or path	The road leveled out after a while and driving was easier. As we got down into the valley, the land leveled out and traveling was easier.
level something out	to cause something to assume a more level course or path	Level this path out before you open it to the public. They have to level out this roadway.

level something at something/somebody	to direct something at someone or something; to aim a remark at someone	The sheriff leveled his rifle at the fleeing bandit. Why did you think you had to level that barrage of words at me? I didn't make the problem. Sam leveled an acid comment or two at the committee.

level something down	to make something level or smooth	The soil is very uneven in this part of the garden. Would you please level it down? The huge earth-moving machines leveled the hill down in preparation for the building of the highway.

level something to the ground	to crush or demolish something down to the ground	They were forced to level the building to the ground, because they could not afford to maintain it. The house was leveled to the ground by the tornado.

level something up	to move something into a level or plumb position	Use a piece of wood under the table's leg to level it up. I will level up the table.

level with somebody	to tell someone the truth (Usage notes: usually said about information that may be unpleasant)	If our leaders don't level with us, we lose faith in our government.
level with somebody (about something/somebody)	to be straightforward with someone about something; to be sincere or truthful about someone or something	The police encouraged the criminal to level with them about the crime. Level with me, and tell me what you thought of my cake.

levy something (up)on something/somebody	to place a tax on someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The Congress was very straightforward. It levied room taxes upon rich people. The city council levied a heavy tax on hotel guests.

liberate something/somebody from something/somebody	to free someone or something from someone or something; to set someone or something free from the control of someone or something	The police hoped to liberate the child from his kidnappers. We liberated the town from the enemy. I liberated the cat from the trap.

license to do something	permission, right, or justification to do something	You have no license to behave in that manner! Who granted you license to enter my house without knocking?

lick at something	to draw the tongue over something repeatedly	Jimmy was just licking at the ice-cream cone, and soon it began to melt and drip off his elbow. I don't just lick at the ice cream. I take big bites of it.

lick of !

lick something into !
lick something/somebody into shape	to press or force someone or something into good shape or condition	The drama coach will try to lick her into shape by performance time. Please try to lick this report into shape by tomorrow morning.

lick something off (of) something	to remove something from something by licking with the tongue (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The dog licked the grease off of the floor where the meat had dropped. The dog licked off the grease.

lick something up	to clean up all of some substance by licking with the tongue (Usually said of an animal)	Don't worry about the spilled milk. The dog will lick it up. The dog licked up the milk.

lie at !

lie down	to recline and rest	I'm going to LIE DOWN for a few minutes before we have to go out. I'm tired. I have to lie down for a little while.

lie in !

lie with	to have the right to make a decision	The decision about the contract LIES WITH the courts.

life in !

life of !

lift off	to leave the ground- rocket or spaceship	5-4-3-2-1- we have LIFT-OFF!.
lift off	[for a plane or rocket] to move upward, leaving the ground	The rocket lifted off exactly on time.
lift something off (of) something/somebody	to raise something and uncover or release someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Lift the beam off of him and see if he is still breathing. Please lift off the heavy lid.

lift something from something/somebody	to raise something off someone or something	Please lift this burden from me. I lifted the glass from the tray carefully.

lift something/somebody down (from something)	to move someone or something down (from something or some place) by lifting and carrying	Would you please lift Jimmy down from the top bunk? Frank lifted down the heavy box.

lift something/somebody up	to raise someone or something	I helped lift him up and put him on the stretcher. Please lift up Tommy.
lift up	to raise up	Suddenly, the top of the box lifted up and a hand reached out. Bill's hand lifted up and fell back again.

light up	to illuminate	They LIGHT UP the streets at Christmas time. The stars lit up the sky.
light up	to light or start smoking a cigarette	Asif LIT UP as soon as he got out of the building.
light up	to start smoking a cigarette	In Los Angeles, you're not allowed to light up in any bars and restaurants.

lighten something up	to make something lighter or brighter	Some white paint will lighten this room up a lot. The sunlight came in and lightened up the kitchen.
lighten up	to be less serious	I told them to LIGHTEN UP but they continued complaining about it.
lighten up	to be less serious about something (Usage notes: often used as an order)	People are usually relieved when they're given a chance to lighten up. When she complained that these people were being treated badly, he told her, "Lighten up."
lighten up	to become lighter or brighter (See also lighten up (on someone or something))	We applied a new coat of white paint to the walls, and the room lightened up considerably. The sky is beginning to lighten up a little.

liken something/somebody to something/somebody	to compare someone or something to someone or something, concentrating on the similarities	He is strange. I can only liken him to an eccentric millionaire. The poet likened James to a living statue of Mercury.

limber something/somebody up	to make someone or something more flexible or loose	Let me give you a massage; that will limber you up. I need to limber up my arms.
limber up	to do some exercises to warm up before playing a sport or other physical activity	The team LIMBERED UP for a few minutes before the game started.
limber up for	to prepare for something that will require a great effort	They are LIMBERING UP FOR the end of the financial year.

limit somebody to something	to restrict someone to a certain amount or number of something	I will have to limit you to two helpings of mashed potatoes. I limit myself to cola drinks only.
limit somebody to something	to restrict someone to a certain area	Please try to limit your children to your own yard. They limited themselves to the north side of town.
limit something to something	to restrict something to a limited set, a certain amount, or a specific number of something	Please limit your comments to five minutes. Can you limit your remarks to the subject at hand?

line up	to arrange events for someone	We have LINED UP a lot of meetings for them.
line up	to arrange in a line	The police got them to LINE UP against the wall.
line up	to arrange something in a line	He LINED the bottles UP against the wall.

linger around	to wait around; to be idle some place	Don't linger around. Get going! All the students were lingering around, waiting until the last minute to go into the building.

linger on	to remain for a long time; to exist longer than would have been thought	This cold of mine just keeps lingering on. Some of the guests lingered on for a long time after the party was over.
linger on (after something/somebody)	to outlast someone or something; to live longer than someone else or long after an event	Aunt Sarah lingered on only a few months after Uncle Herman died. She lingered on and was depressed for a while.
linger on something	to delay moving on to the next thing; to remain at something and not move on	Don't linger on that one problem so long. I don't want to waste a lot of time lingering on this question.

linger over something	to dawdle over the doing of something	You shouldn't linger over eating your dinner. It would he best not to linger over making up your mind.
linger over something	to take too much time or idle over something, such as a meal, a cup of coffee, etc.	I could linger over coffee all morning, given the chance. Don't linger over your soup. It will get cold.

link something/somebody to something/somebody	to connect people and things, in any combination	We have to link each person to one other person, using this colored yarn to tie them together. We linked each decoration together with another one.
link something/somebody to something/somebody	to discover a connection between people and things, in any combination	I would never have thought of linking Fred to Tom. I didn't even know they knew each other. I always sort of linked Tom with honesty.

link something/somebody up (to something)	to connect someone or something to something, usually with something that has a type of fastener or connector that constitutes a link	They promised that they would link me up to the network today. They will link up my computer to the network today.
link up	to connect, join	The train LINKS UP the cities.
link up to something/somebody	to join up with someone or something	I have his new e-mail address so I can link up to Bruce. Now my computer can link up with a computer bulletin board.
link up with	to connect with someone or contact them	We LINKED UP WITH the firm over the web.

list somebody as something	to categorize someone as something, usually in a written list	I will list you as a contributor to the Preservation Fund, if you don't mind. Although she was not registered as such, she listed herself as a stockbroker.

list something/somebody among something	to include someone or something in a particular category	I list George among the all-time greats. I have to list the budget committee as the most efficient ever.

list something/somebody off	to recite a list of people or things, one by one	She listed everyone off in order without having to look at her notes. She listed off the names of the people who are always late. Dale listed each one off.

list to !

listen for (something/somebody)	to try to hear someone or something	I will have to let you in the front door if you come home late. I will listen for you. I am listening for the telephone. John and Mary are supposed to get home at 5:00 P.M. Their mother is listening for their car.

listen in	to eavesdrop on someone	Please don't try to listen in on us. This is a private conversation. I am not listening in. I was here first. You are talking too loud.
listen in	to join someone or a group as a listener	The band is rehearsing. Let's go listen in on them. It won't hurt to listen in, will it?

listen out for	to listen for a particular noise or sound	They put their coats on and LISTENED OUT FOR the minicab.

listen to	We listened to the new CD. I listened to the teacher's lecture.
listen to something/somebody	to heed someone, orders, or advice	Listen to me! Do what I tell you! You really should listen to his advice.
listen to something/somebody	to pay attention to and hear someone or something	Listen to me! Hear what I have to say! I want to listen to his speech.

listen up	to listen carefully (Usually a command)	Now, listen up! This is important. Listen up, you guys!

litter something about	to cast around something, such as trash, clothing, personal possessions, etc.	Don't litter all that stuff about. I wish you wouldn't litter your trash around.
litter something up	to mess something up with litter, trash, possessions, etc.	Who littered this room up? Who littered up this room?

live by	to follow a belief system to guide your behavior	He tries hard to LIVE BY the Bible.

live down	to stop being embarrassed about something	If I fail the test and everyone else passes, I'll never be able to LIVE it DOWN.

live for	to believe something is extremely important	He LIVES FOR football.

live in	to live in the place where you work or study	The university has a residential hall where students can LIVE IN.live in the present	to deal with contemporary events and not be dominated by events of the past or planning for the future	Forget the past; live in the present. It was no longer possible to get Uncle Herman to live in the present.

live off	to use money earned	They find it hard to LIVE OFF the money they make.

live on	to not be forgotten	He's been dead for many years, but his name LIVES ON.
live on	to survive on	It's hard to live on bread and water alone.
live on	to use money for basic necessities	They have to LIVE ON $200 a week.

live out	to fulfill an ambition or fantasy	Many parents try to LIVE OUT their dreams through their children.
live out	to not live at the place where you study or work	In my final year at university I LIVED OUT with some friends in a flat we rented.
live out	to stay somewhere until you die	She LIVED OUT her final years in a nursing home.

live through	to experience different times	It was hard to LIVE THROUGH the recession, but we managed it.

live together	to have a relationship and live in the same place without marrying	We LIVED TOGETHER for a few years before we got married.

live under !

live up to	to meet expectations or standards	The concert didn't LIVE UP TO my expectations.

live with	to accept something unpleasant	It's hard to LIVE WITH the pain of a serious illness.
live with	to have a relationship and live in the same place without marrying	I LIVED WITH her for a couple of years before the relationship went sour.

liven something up	to make something more interesting or attractive	There was a live band at the party, and that really livened things up. A colored shirt can certainly liven up an outfit.
liven something up	to make something more lively or less dull	Some singing might liven things up a bit. The songs livened up the evening.

load down	to burden	I was LOADED DOWN with all the stuff I had to take there.
load something/somebody down (with something/somebody)	to burden someone or something with someone or something	Don't load down my car with too many people. Tom loaded himself down with work every weekend.

load into something	[for people] to get into something	Everyone loaded into the bus, and we set off for Denver. The kids all loaded into the station wagon for the trip.
load something/somebody into something	to put someone or something into something	Would you load the dishes into the dishwasher? Let's load the kids into the car and go to the zoo. Load them in, and let's go.

load something onto something/somebody	to lift something onto someone or something	We loaded the trunk onto Sam, and he carried it up the stairs into the house. Please help me load the boxes onto the cart. Load on the boxes, and let's go.

load something with something	to burden something with something; to put a lot of something onto or into something	Load this box with all the clothing you can get into it. Don't load these drawers with so much stuff.

load something/somebody up (with something/somebody)	to burden someone or something greatly or to the maximum with someone or something	I loaded her up with a number of books on investments, so she could learn what to do with her money. Don't load up your shelves with books you will never look at.
load up	to fill a machine or vehicle	We LOADED the car UP and left for our holiday.
load up	to take illegal drugs	He's been LOADING UP for years.
load up (with something)	to take or accumulate a lot of something	Don't load up with cheap souvenirs. Save your money. Whenever I get into a used-book store, I load up.
load up on	to consume a lot of something for a particular purpose	The athletes LOADED UP ON carbohydrates before the race.

loads of something	much or many things	Wadsworth received loads of support from other teachers and parents. I've heard that story from loads of different people. I've collected loads of stuff for my scrapbook.

loaf something away	to waste away a period of time	You have loafed the entire day away! He loafed away the entire day.

loan something to somebody	to lend something to someone (Considered to be an error for lend)	Can you loan a few bucks to Sam and me? I will not loan anything to you.

lob something at something/somebody	to throw or toss something at someone or something	Who lobbed this thing at me? They lobbed a stone at the cat, but that only made it mad.

lobby against something	to solicit support against something, such as a piece of legislation or a government regulation	We sent a lot of lawyers to the state capital to lobby against the bill, but it passed anyway. They lobbied against the tax increase.

lobby for something	to solicit support for something among the members of a voting body, such as the Congress	Tom is always lobbying for some reform bill or other. The manufacturers lobbied for tax relief.

lock (somebody or an animal) (up) in (something)	to fasten the opening to something so someone, a group, or an animal cannot get out	Take Chuck and lock him up in the cell. Lock up the killer and throw away the key!
lock in	to commit someone in such a way that they cannot leave	They are LOCKED IN now that they have paid their subscription.
lock in	to lock a place to stop someone leaving	They LOCKED him IN the room until he had calmed down.
lock in on something/somebody	to fix some kind of electronic sensing device on someone or something	The enemy pilot was flying just ahead of us. Aiming the laser, we locked in on him and shot him down. We locked onto the satellite and got an excellent TV picture.
lock in something	to be unable to change a condition	A large percentage of these groups remain locked in poverty. The two countries are locked in a dispute over the islands off the northern coast.
lock something in	to make something, such as a rate of interest, permanent over a period of time	You should try to lock in a high percentage rate on your bonds. We locked in a very low rate on our mortgage.

lock away	to lock in a safe place	He LOCKED the gun AWAY in a drawer.
lock away	to put someone in prison or a mental hospital for a very long time	They LOCKED him AWAY for life after the murders.
lock something/somebody away	to put someone or something away in a locked container or space	You will have to lock all the medications away when the grandchildren come to visit. They locked away some cash for a rainy day. They locked it away.

lock down	to make very secure	If you lock down your computer properly, it is very difficult for people to access it.

lock on (to something/somebody)	to fasten or grab onto someone or something	She locked onto the child and wouldn't leave his side for an instant. I saw the thing 1wanted and locked on.

lock onto	to find a target and head for it	The missile LOCKED ONTO the plane and blew it out of the sky.
lock something onto something/somebody	to attach or fix something onto someone or something	The cop locked the handcuffs onto the mugger and led him away. Andy locked his bicycle onto the signpost. See that bike rack? Lock your bike on and keep an eye on it.

lock out	to close a workplace to stop workers entering	The management LOCKED the staff OUT because they had turned down the pay offer.
lock out	to lock a place to stop someone getting in	I lost my key and LOCKED myself OUT.
lock something/somebody out of something	to lock something to prevent someone or something from getting into it	Someone locked me out of my office. Who locked out the office staff this morning?

lock something/somebody up (somewhere)	to lock someone or something within something or some place	The captain ordered the sailor locked up in the brig until the ship got into port. Don't lock me up! The sheriff locked up the crook in a cell.
lock up	to close all doors, windows, etc.	She LOCKED UP after everyone had left and went home.
lock up	to lock something in a safe place	I LOCKED my money UP in the safe.
lock up	to put in prison or a mental hospital	They LOCKED him UP for burglary.

lodge somebody with somebody	to have someone stay with someone as a guest	We lodged the visitor with George for the weekend. Would it be possible for us to lodge Mary with you?

lodge something against somebody	to place a charge against someone	The neighbors lodged a complaint against us for walking on their grass. I want to lodge an assault charge against Randy.
lodge something against something	to place or prop something against something	We lodged the chest against the door, making it difficult or impossible to open. Let's lodge the stone against the side of the barn to help support it.

lodge something in something	to get something stuck in something or some place	She lodged her coat in the door and tore it. He lodged a screwdriver in the machine's gears by accident.

lodge with somebody	to stay or reside with someone	I lodged with my cousin while I was in Omaha. Tricia plans to lodge with us while she is here.

log in	to enter a restricted area on a computer system	I had forgotten my password and couldn't LOG IN.

log into	to enter a restricted area of a computer system	I LOGGED INTO the staff intranet to check my email.

log off	to exit a computer system	When she'd finished working on the spreadsheet, she LOGGED OFF and left the office.
log off	to record one's exit from a computer system (This action may be recorded, or logged, automatically in the computer's memory)	I closed my files and logged off. What time did you log out?
log off	to stop using a computer system	When the file transfer is complete, you can log off the Web and launch your print program.
log somebody off	[for someone] to cause someone to exit from a computer system (This exit may be recorded, or logged, automatically in the computer's memory)	Mary had to rush off to an appointment, so I logged her off.

log on	to enter a computer system	He entered his password for the college intranet and LOGGED ON.
log on	to begin to use a computer system, as by entering a password, etc. (This action may be recorded, or logged, automatically in the computer's memory)	What time did you log on to the system this morning? I always log on before I get my first cup of coffee.
log on	to open a computer system so that it can be used	As a graduate student, Erin often logged on to the system from home around midnight. Internet companies are trying to help business travelers log in while they're on the road.
log on/in to	to enter a username/password combination to be allowed access to a computer, email account, etc.	The system is not allowing me to log in for some reason.
log somebody on (to something)	to allow someone to link (electronically) to a computer system (This action may be recorded, or logged, automatically in the computer's memory)	I will log you on to the system if you forgot how to do it. I will log on Jill, who is late.

log out	to exit a computer system	Danny closed the programs and LOGGED OUT when it was time to go home.

log somebody for something	to make a note in a log about someone's bad behavior	The captain logged the first mate for the navigation error. I will have to log you for that.
log somebody for something	to schedule someone for something	I am going to log you for sentry duty on the weekends. We will have to log Bill for service as a parking attendant.

log something up	to record an amount of something	The ship logged many nautical miles up on its last voyage. It logged up a lot of miles.

loiter around	to idle somewhere; to hang around	Stop loitering around! Get going! The kids were loitering around for most of the summer.

loiter over something	to dawdle or linger over something	Don't loiter over your meal. I want to start the dishwasher. I wish you wouldn't loiter over your chores.

loiter something away	to idle away a period of time	Those boys will loiter half their lives away. They loitered away their summer vacation.

loll about (some place)	to lie, lounge, or droop some place	The tired travelers lolled about all over the hotel lobby until their rooms were ready. They were still lolling about at three in the afternoon.

loll around	to roll, flop, or hang around	The dog's tongue lolled around as it rolled on its back, trying to keep cool. Stop lolling around and get to work.

loll back	[for a head] to fall or droop backwards	As he passed out, his head lolled back and struck the corner of the table. Her head lolled back and suddenly she was fast asleep.

loll out	[for a tongue] to hang or flop out	The dog's tongue lolled out as it lay sleeping. Since the dog's tongue lolled out every time it opened its mouth, it is a wonder it didn't bite it when it closed its mouth.

long for

look after (somebody/something)	to take care of	Their auntie LOOKED AFTER them while their mother was in hospital. I have to look after my sick grandmother. I'll look after your dog while you're in Spain. I will look after the children when yoou are away. I will look after buying the tickets. A baby sitter looks after the children when their parents go out.

look ahead	to think of the future	It's time to forget the past and look ahead.

look at (something/somebody)	Please look at my answer to this problem.

look back	to think about the past	Old people often LOOK BACK on over their lives.

look down
look down on	to consider as inferior	He tends to look down on anyone who is not successful.
look down on	to have a low opinion of	He LOOKS DOWN ON his colleagues because he thinks he's better than they are.
look down on	to regard with a feeling of superiority
look down on	to see someone or something as being worse, inferior	Arrogant people often look down on others.
look down on somebody	to think less of, consider inferior	Ever since we stole that chocolate bar your dad has looked down on me.

look for (somebody/something)	try to find something, seek	I've been LOOKING FOR all their hidden files, but I can't find them anywhere. Jane went shopping to look for a pair of shoes. I looked for information on the Web. I'm looking for a red dress for the wedding.

look forward to	to await or anticipate with pleasure	I'm LOOKING FORWARD TO meeting you. I look forward to seeing you soon. I look forward to seeing you. I am looking forward to my visit to Egypt. Michael looked forward to visiting his family.
look forward to something	to be excited about the future	I'm looking forward to the Christmas break.

look in	to make a quick visit	I'll LOOK IN on my way home.
look in on	to visit briefly to see if everything's all right	I'm going to LOOK IN ON grannie on the way home tonight as she's been a bit unwell recently.

look into	to investigate (a crime)	We are going to look into the price of snowboards today.
look into	to research, investigate	We'll LOOK INTO the problem and come back to you when we have the information.

look on	to be a spectator at an event; regard	Billy didn't take part in the fight. He just looked on.
look on	to watch something like a crime without helping	The crowd just LOOKED ON as the old lady was mugged.
look on as	to consider, regard	I LOOK ON her AS a close friend.

look out	to be careful, vigilant, and take notice	LOOK OUT; you're going to drop that! Look out! That car's going to hit you!
look out for somebody/something	to be especially vigilant for	Don't forget to look out for snakes on the hiking trail.

look over	to inspect	They came to LOOK the house OVER with a view to buying it.
look over something; look something over
look something over	to check, examine	Can you look over my essay for spelling mistakes?

look round	to inspect a house	We LOOKED ROUND the house and decided that we didn't like it enough to buy it.

look somebody up	to support two competing sides in an argument	You've got to decide where you stand on this issue. You can't run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
look somebody up	to visit someone	Look me up the next time you're in Los Angeles. I hope you'll look up my niece while you're in Pittsburgh.
look something up	to search and find information in a reference book or database	We can look her phone number up on the Internet.
look something up	to check a fact or get information about something	If you don't know the meaning of the word, look it up in your dictionary. The research involved looking up how my opponent voted.
look something/somebody up	to seek information about someone or something in a book or listing	I don't recognize his name. I'll look him up and see what I can find. I'll look up this person in a reference book. She looked herself up in the telephone book to make sure her name was spelled correctly.
look something/somebody up	to seek someone, a group, or something out	I lost track of Sally. I'll try to look her up and get in touch with her. lam going to look up an old friend when lam in Chicago. I am going to hunt that old gang up. Ted came into town and looked up his favorite pizza place.
look to	to expect, hope	The company is LOOKING TO increase its sales in Asia.
look up	to consult a reference work (dictionary, phonebook, etc.) for a specific piece of information	I didn't know the correct spelling so I had to LOOK it UP in the dictionary.
look up	to find, trace an old friend	I LOOKED him UP when I went back to Cambridge.
look up	to improve	The economy is LOOKING UP.
look up	to show promise of improving	My prospects for a job are looking up. Conditions are looking up.
look up (from something)	to gaze upwards; to stop reading or working and lift one's gaze upward	She looked up from her reading and spoke to us. Mary looked up as we came into the room.
look up something; look something up
look up to	to admire	He was a wonderful teacher and many students looked up to him. She is glad they look up to her.
look up to	to respect	She's LOOKS UP TO her mother.
look up to	to admire	He is a leader in the community and many people look up to him.
look up to	to check and find (in a dictionary, etc.)	I tried to look that word up, but it wasn't in the dictionary.
look up to somebody	to have a lot of respect for	My little sister has always looked up to me.

look through	to pretend not to see; examine the contents of something

look upon as	to consider, regard	I LOOK UPON him AS a close friend.

loom out of something	to appear to come out of or penetrate something	A truck suddenly loomed out of the fog and just missed hitting us. A tall building loomed out of the mists.

loosen somebody up	to make someone or a group more relaxed and friendly	I loosened up the audience with a joke. Loosen yourself up. Relax and try to enjoy people.
loosen something/somebody up	to make someone's muscles and joints move more freely by exercising them	The exercise loosened me up quite nicely. It loosened up my legs. I have to do some exercises to loosen myself up.
loosen up (somebody)	to behave in a relaxed, informal way	Slowly she began to loosen up and, by the second semester, she was making friends with her classmates. The question was supposed to loosen people up and chase away their anxieties.

lop something off (of) something	to chop or cut something off something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Lop that long branch off the tree before you put the saw away, will you? Please lop off that branch.

lope along	to move along, bounding	The dog loped along at a very even pace, answering to his master's whistle. The horses loped along, eager to get home.

lord it over	to behave in a superior manner	She loves to LORD IT OVER her employees.
lord it over somebody	to behave as if you are better than someone else and have the right to tell them what to do	She likes to lord it over the more junior staff in the office.
lord it over somebody	to behave as if you are better than someone else	Unfortunately, some senior faculty have a habit of lording it over younger professors.
lord it over somebody	to dominate someone; to direct and control someone	Mr. Smith seems to lord it over his wife. The boss lords it over everyone in the office.

lose with something/somebody !

lose out	to be at a disadvantage	Many people LOST OUT when the new regulations were enforced.
lose out on	to not gain or have something advantageous	Because I left the company, I LOST OUT ON my bonus.
lose out to	to be less successful	People without IT skills often LOSE OUT TO those with the skills.

lost in !

lot of something/somebody	a large number of people or things; much of something	I got a lot of presents for my birthday. I ate lots of cookies after dinner.

louse something/somebody up	to ruin something; to mess someone or something up	You really loused me up! You got me in a real mess! Who loused up my scheme?

low on !

luck out	be very lucky	I really LUCKED OUT when I met my partner.

lull before !

lumber along	to lope or walk along heavily and awkwardly	The horses were lumbering along very slowly because they were tired out. They were lumbering along, hoping to get there on time.

lumber off	to move or lope away heavily and awkwardly	The frightened bear lumbered off, and we left in a hurry. He lumbered off, leaving us there alone.

lump somebody and somebody else together	to classify people or things as members of the same category	You just can't lump Bill and Ted together. They are totally different kinds of people. I tend to lump apples and oranges together.

lunch off something	to make a lunch by eating something or part of something	We will be able to lunch off the leftover turkey for days! lean lunch off what is in the refrigerator. Don't worry about me.

lunch out	to eat lunch away from one's home or away from one's place of work	I think I'll lunch out today. I'm tired of carrying lunches. I want to lunch out today.

lunge at something/somebody	to jump or dive at someone or something	The dog lunged at the man, but he got out of the way without getting bitten. The dog lunged at the bicycle.

lunge for something/somebody	to charge or jump at someone or something; to attack someone or something	The mugger lunged for her, but she dodged him. Ted lunged for the door, but Bill beat him to it.

lurch at something/somebody	to sway or turn quickly toward someone or something	Todd lurched at the door and got it open just as the guard saw him. Bill lurched toward the ship's rail and hung on.

lure something/somebody away (from something/somebody)	to entice or draw someone away from someone or something	Do you think we could lure her away from her present employment? They were not able to lure away many of the employees of the other companies.

lure something/somebody in to something	to entice someone or something into something or a place	The thief tried to lure the tourist into an alley to rob him. Using an old trick, the thief lured in the tourist.

lurk around	to slink or sneak around somewhere	Who is that guy lurking around the building? Stop lurking around.

lust after somebody	to desire someone sexually	You could see that Sam was lusting after Sally. Roger claims that he does not lust for anyone.

lust for something	to desire something	He says he lusts for a nice cold can of beer. Mary lusts for rich and fattening ice cream.

luxuriate in something	to indulge oneself in something; to enjoy the luxury of something	She stood in front of the mirror, luxuriating in her lovely new coat. They were all luxuriating in the warm, bubbling waters of the hot tub.


mad about something

mad at somebody

made to !

magic away	to make something disappear quickly	He MAGICKED the bill AWAY and paid for us all before I could get my wallet out.

mail something from !

maintain somebody in something	to keep or provide for someone in a certain style or condition	I insist that you maintain me in the style to which I have become accustomed. He had hoped to maintain himself in comfort.

major in something	to specialize in a certain subject in college	I majored in history in college. I want to major in math.

make (some) sense (out) of something/somebody	to understand someone or something	I can't make sense out of Doris and what she has done! No one can make sense out of Tom's story.
make of !

make (somebody) out (to be something)	to make someone seem like something	They made her out to be some kind of monster.
make out	to kiss and pet	They were MAKING OUT at the party last night.
make out	to make a cheque payable to somebody	Please MAKE the cheque OUT to RGM Productions Ltd.
make out	to pretend	He MADE OUT that he was ill so that he didn't have to go to school.
make out	to progress	How are your children MAKING OUT at the new school?
make out	to recognise, distinguish
make out	to decipher/ understand	He always mumbles - I can never make out what he's saying.
make out	to kiss and touch (passionately)	The two college students were making out in the park.

make (somebody) over	to change someone's appearance
make over	to change appearance	The beauty salon gave her a MAKEOVER before the party.

make for something/somebody !

make in something !

make at something/somebody !
make at something !

make for	to have/produce a particular effect
make for	to head in a certain direction	We MADE FOR home when it started raining.

make into	to change something into something else	Many churches have been MADE INTO flats in recent years.

make of	to understand/ interpret	What do you make of his comments? (How would you interpret his comments?)
make sense of something	to understand something	The community is trying to make sense of the tragedy.

make off	to run away
make off with	to steal	Thieves MADE OFF WITH over a million dollars in the robbery.

make somebody up	to apply cosmetics to	My sisters made me up for my graduation party.
make something up	to invent, lie about something	Josie made up a story about why we were late.
make up	to constitute, form; invent a lie; put together, prepare; apply cosmetics
make up	Did she make up the clowns yet? I made up that story. I'm sorry, but you can't make up that test you missed. Class participation will make up 25% of your final grade. They kissed and made up. Do you think I would make this up?
make up	to forgive each other	We were angry last night, but we made up at breakfast.
make up	to invent (excuse, story)	They MADE UP an excuse for being late. Some employees make up excuses when they arrive late for work.
make up	to put on cosmetics	She went to the bathroom to MAKE her face UP.
make up	to stop being angry with someone	They are always arguing, but they MAKE UP again very quickly.
make up	to fabricate, invent	He made up a story about how he got robbed on the way to work.
make up	to reconcile	They had a big fight, but then they made up right away.
make up for	to compensate; regain (time); put	I sent her a present to try to MAKE UP FOR my appalling behaviour.
make up for	to compensate for	He made up for what he said by inviting her to a movie.
make up something; make something up
make up to	to increase a sum received to a higher figure	The charity collected ВЈ24,517.57, and the anonymous donor MADE the total UP TO ВЈ25,000.

make with	to give (usually used as an imperative)	MAKE WITH the money you owe me.

manage with something/somebody	to do as well as possible with only someone or something (less than one had hoped for)	We wanted Kelly to help us, but we will manage with Larry. I am sure we can manage with the money that we have.

map out something	to decide in detail how something will be done	She is mapping out lesson plans for teachers who work with below-average readers. When we mapped it out before we began this project, we thought we would be finished by now.
map something out	to plot something out carefully, usually on paper	I have a good plan. I will map it out for you. I will map out the plan for you.

mar something up	to dent or scratch something; to harm the smooth finish of something	Please don't mar the furniture up. Don't mar up my desk.

march (from some place) (to some place)	to move along, walking with purposeful steps, from some place to some place	The army marched from one town to another. They marched to the battlefield from town.

march against something/somebody	to march in a demonstration against someone or something	The demonstrators marched against the mayor. The citizens got together and marched against crime and injustice.

march on	to continue marching	Please march on. Don't stop here; there are other parts of the parade coming along behind you. Let's march on. We have a long way to go.
march on	[for time] to continue	Time marches on. We are all getting older. As the day marches on, try to get everything completed.

march past something/somebody	to move in a file or formation past someone or something	The people in the parade marched past the children standing on the curb. The soldiers marched past the general.

march to !

mark down	to give a student a lower grade for a particular reason	Students who gave obviously rehearsed answers were MARKED DOWN, while those who spoke naturally were rewarded accordingly.
mark down	to reduce the price of something	I'll buy a lot more if you MARK them DOWN a bit.
mark down	to lower a price	All these items have been marked down. They are on sale.
mark down as	to consider someone or something to be of a certain group, type, etc.	I MARKED them DOWN AS conservatives, but they're very liberal.

mark off	to tick, cross out or otherwise mark something to show that it has been dealt with	I MARKED OFF the items on the list as I finished them.

mark out	to draw lines to enclose an area	They MARKED OUT the pitch.
mark out for	to show promise for the future	His dedication MARKED him OUT FOR great things.
mark out from	to stand out because of certain qualities	Her speed MARKS her OUT FROM the rest of the group.

mark up	to increase the price of something	They MARK the goods UP by 25% before they sell them.
mark up	to increase a price	Retailers had to mark up their prices in order to cover expenses.

marry above !

marry below !

marry in	to marry someone of the same ethnicity, religion, etc.	Many religions encourage their followers to MARRY IN.

marry into something	to become a part of a family or a fortune by marriage	She married into money, they say. I always wanted to marry into a large family until I found out what that means in terms of buying gifts.

marry out	to marry someone of a different ethnicity, religion, etc.	Her parents disowned her and refused to speak to her when she MARRIED OUT.

marry somebody off (to somebody)	to manage to get someone married to someone and out of the house or family	Her parents wanted nothing more than to marry her off to a doctor. They married off their children soon.

marshal something/somebody together	to organize or gather someone or something together	The leader marshaled all his people together in preparation for the parade. Let's marshal the troops together for the attack.

marvel at something/somebody	to express wonder or surprise at someone or something	I can only marvel at Valerie and all she has accomplished. We all marveled at the beauty of the new building.

marvel to behold	someone or something quite exciting or wonderful to see	Our new high-definition television is a marvel to behold. Mary's lovely new baby is a marvel to behold.

mash on something	to press on something, such as a button (Southern)	He kept mashing on the doorbell until someone responded. Just mash on this button if you want someone to come.

mash something up	to crush something into a paste or pieces	Mash the potatoes up and put them in a bowl. Mash up the potatoes and serve them to our guests.
mash up	to break or damage	He MASHED UP my MP3 player and lost my files.
mash up	to crush something until it becomes a paste	He MASHED UP some bananas for the dessert.
mash up	to mix sources of audio, video or other computer sources	She MASHED UP the songs into a single track.

mash something with something	to combine ingredients while mashing	Mash the turnips with the butter. She mashed the potatoes with sour cream, cream cheese, and a little garlic salt.
mash something with something	to use something to mash something up	Vernon mashed the potatoes with a spoon because he couldn't find the masher. Gerald used the heel of his shoe to mash the wasp.

masquerade as something/somebody	to appear disguised as someone or something; to pretend to be someone or something	We decided to masquerade as ghosts for the party. Mr. Wilson, who is a bit overweight, masqueraded as Cinderella's coach.

match (somebody) against (somebody else) (or something against something else)	to challenge someone with someone else in a contest; to challenge something with something else in a contest	I will match my boxer against your boxer any day. I'll match myself against you any day!

match for (somebody, something, or an animal)	someone, something, or an animal that is the equal of someone, something, or some other animal, especially in a contest	My older brother is no match for me; he's much weaker. Your horse is no match for mine in a race. Mine will always win.

match somebody (up) (with somebody)	to pair people or things	I will match Carl up with Kelly and George with Jane. I will match up Carl with Kelly.
match up	[for things or people] to match, be equal, or complementary	These match up. See how they are the same length? Sorry, but these two parts don't match up.
match up (against somebody)	to have a chance to win in a competition against someone	He was nominated because he matched up better against the governor. With our team's experience, I think we match up well.
match up to something	[for something] to match, be equal to, or complementary to something	This sock does not match up to the other one. This one matches up to all the others.

match something/somebody in something	to equal someone or something in some quality	I am sure I match her in wisdom if not in grace and beauty. You do not match her in any way.

mate somebody with somebody	to pair or breed people or animals	The king sought to mate his daughter with the son of a magician. Harry wanted to mate his guppies with June's guppies.

matter to (somebody)

max (yourself) out	as much as possible	We're stretched to the max - we can't possibly take on any more work. A lot of these guys push their bodies to the max, spending three or more hours a day in the gym.
max (yourself) out	as much as possible, maximally	She is happy to the max. They worked to the max their whole shift.
max (yourself) out	to reach a limit	By Christmas our credit cards were maxed out. This great athlete hasn't maxed herself out - yet.
max out	to take a credit line to the limit	She MAXED OUT her credit cards.
max out	to reach one's maximum in something, such as weight in weight lifting or credit on a credit card	Andy finally maxed out at 300 pounds. Randy just knew when he had maxed out. Something in his body told him to stop.

maxed out	exhausted; tired	lam just maxed out. I haven't been getting enough sleep. I had to stop work because I was too maxed out.
maxed out	intoxicated	Sam was maxed out and seemed happy enough to sit under the table and whimper. I hadn't seen Barlowe so maxed out in years. He was nearly paralyzed.

measure (somebody) against (somebody else) (or something against something else)	to compare someone with someone else; to compare something with something else	Daniel measured his brother against the boy next door. We measured the new building against the older ones and found the new one lacking in many respects. I measured myself against Tom and found him superior in almost everything.
measure against	to evaluate or judge by comparison	The work doesn't look good if you MEASURE it AGAINST what our competitors have done.

measure off	to measure something and mark the point where it ends or will be cut	The tailor MEASURED OFF the material for my suit.
measure something off	to determine the length of something	He measured the length of the room off and wrote down the figure in his notebook. Fred measured off the width of the house. Fred measured a few feet of string off, and cut it with a knife.

measure out	to measure or weigh the amount needed	He MEASURED OUT the flour for the bread.
measure something out	to measure and distribute something as it is being taken out, unwrapped, unfolded, etc.	Carl measured the grain out a cup at a time. He measured out the grain little by little.

measure somebody up against something/somebody	to place someone up against someone or something else for the purpose of comparing size or other qualities	Please measure Fred up against Tom and see who has the best qualifications. Can you measure Brian up against the mark on the wall to see how tall he is growing?
measure up	to be good enough, meet the required standard	She didn't MEASURE UP in her probationary period, so we didn't extend her contract.
measure up	to find the size of something	The estate agent MEASURED UP all the rooms.
measure up	to be of an equally high quality	These new products don't measure up to our standards.
measure up (to somebody/something)	to reach a standard that is as good as someone or something else (Usage notes: often used in a negative way)	The math skills of the majority of children in this school measure up to the national standards. They didn't measure up so I couldn't hire them. Too often computer software fails to measure up to expectations.

meddle in something	to intrude [oneself] into something	I wish you wouldn't meddle in my affairs. Go meddle in someone else's business.

meddle with something/somebody	to interfere with someone or something; to mess around with someone or something	Please don't meddle with me. I am in a bad mood. Would you please stop meddling with my computer?

mediate between (somebody and somebody else)	to negotiate an agreement between people	I will have to mediate between Mary and Vernon. No one wants to mediate between them.

meditate on something/somebody	to reflect on someone or something	Judy was instructed to meditate on a flower. I will meditate on that happy thought.

meet up (with somebody)	to see and talk to someone familiar or someone you do not know	Let's meet up for drinks after work. I met up with a couple of Australians on the train. Usage notes: refers to seeing someone either intentionally or unexpectedly.
meet up with something/somebody	to meet someone or something, usually by accident	I met up with Don on the street yesterday. James met up with a strange accident.

meet with	to have something happen to you	They MET WITH some problems they hadn't anticipated.
meet with somebody	to have a meeting with someone	I will meet with all of them on Monday. When can I meet with you?
meet with something	to encounter some kind of response	The proposal met with unexpected opposition. Her speech was met with universal approval.
meet with something	to experience something, esp	something unpleasant The proposal for the new highway met with harsh criticism. Usage notes: often used of a negative reaction.
meet with something	[for someone or something] to strike or touch something	That board is supposed to meet perfectly with the surface of the wall. Her head met with the top of the car a number of times during the journey.
meet with something	[for someone] to experience something, such as an accident	Poor Carlo met with a serious accident. Henry always feared meeting with a horrible fate.

mellow out	to become generally more relaxed	Gary was nearly forty before he started to mellow out a little and take life less seriously. After his illness, he mellowed out and seemed more glad to be alive.
mellow out	to become less angry	When you mellow out, maybe we can talk. Come on, man, stop yelling and mellow out!
mellow out	to become more relaxed	I used to get upset about my golf game, but now I've mellowed out a little bit and it doesn't bother me so much.

melt away	if food melts in your mouth, it is soft and tastes very pleasant	This sponge cake just melts in your mouth.
melt away	to disappear (Usage notes: sometimes used in the form melt something away)	The polls show him with a big lead now, but his support could melt away before the election. She put on some music that's meant to melt your tension away.
melt away	to melt into a liquid	The ice cubes melted away quickly in the intense heat. When the wax candles melted away, they ruined the lace tablecloth.

melt down	[for a nuclear reactor] to become hot enough to melt through its container	The whole system was on the verge of melting down.
melt down	[for something frozen] to melt	The glacier melted down little by little. When the ice on the streets melted down, it was safe to drive again.

melt in !

melt something away	to cause something to melt into a liquid	The sun melted the ice away. The sun melted away the ice.

melt something down	to cause something frozen to melt; to cause something solid to melt	The rays of the sun melted the candle down to a puddle of wax. The heat melted down the ice.

melt something into something	to cause something to change its state when melting	The ice melted into a cold liquid that we could drink. We melted the fat into a liquid that we could deep-fry in.

mention something to somebody	to refer to something while talking to someone	Please mention it to your father. You had better not mention that to anyone.

mention something/somebody in something	to name someone or something in a particular context	We mentioned you in regard to nominations for the congress. Everyone mentioned your book in the discussions.
mention something/somebody in something	to name someone or something in a will, lecture, story, article, etc.	They mentioned your name in the discussion. Uncle Herman mentioned you in his will.

merge (something) with (something else)	to join two things together	The management merged the sales division with the marketing division. We merged the accounting department with the auditing department.

merge in (to something)	to join into something	The stream merged into the main channel of the river.

merge something/somebody into something	to route someone or something into something else	They merged the marchers into the parade and no one ever knew they were late. We merged in the latecomers to the parade at an intersection.

merge with something/somebody	to join with someone or something	Ted merged with Fred and they created a very profitable partnership. Our company merged with a larger one, and we all kept our jobs. This stream merges with a larger stream about two miles to the west.

mesh together	to fit together	Their interests and personalities mesh together perfectly. Their ideas don't mesh together too well.

mesh with something	to fit with something	Your idea just doesn't mesh with my plans. Currently, your proposed project doesn't mesh at all well with our long-range planning.

mess about	to have a sexual relationship outside marriage or a permanent relationship	He's not faithful - he's been MESSING ABOUT since they were married.
mess about	to not be serious, not use something properly	The children were MESSING ABOUT with the TV remote control and broke it.
mess about	to treat someone badly	He is always MESSING me ABOUT and never does what he promises.
mess about with	to have a sexual relationship outside marriage or a permanent relationship	She's been MESSING ABOUT WITH another guy she knows from work.
mess about with	to try to improve something, usually making things worse	The computer was working fine until he started MESSING ABOUT WITH it.

mess around	to have a sexual relationship outside marriage or a permanent relationship	She's not faithful - she's been MESSING AROUND since they got married.
mess around	to not be serious, play with something	I was MESSING AROUND on the internet because I couldn't be bothered to do any work.
mess around	to experiment with something; to use and learn about something	We had been messing about with some new video techniques when we made our discovery. The people in this lab are messing around with all kinds of polymers.
mess around	to play with or fiddle with something idly and with no good purpose	Don't mess around with the ashtray. You'll break it if you don't stop messing about with it.
mess around	to play [with someone] sexually	Those two have been messing around. Pete was messing around with Maria during the summer.
mess around	to waste time doing something without a particular purpose fool around (Usage notes: often used in the not mess around (to act with a serious purpose)	The kids were just messing around at the mall. Being a federal agent on the track of terrorists, Matt doesn't mess around.
mess around	to waste time; to do something ineffectually	Stop messing around and get busy. I wish you wouldn't mess about so much. You waste a lot of time that way.
mess around	to treat someone badly	She is always MESSING me AROUND and never does what she promises.
mess around with	to have a sexual relationship outside marriage or a permanent relationship	He's been MESSING ABOUT WITH a woman he works with.
mess around with	to try to improve something, usually making things worse	The computer was working fine until they started MESSING ABOUT WITH it.
mess around with somebody	to have sex with someone other than your husband, wife, or usual sexual partner fool around with somebody	She found out that her husband was messing around with her best friend.
mess around with somebody	to treat someone badly	He was always messing around with her, and she was right to leave him.
mess around with something	to amuse yourself by doing or saying something that is likely to cause trouble fool around with something	I don't know if I'm dealing with a 14-year-old messing around with a computer or if I'm dealing with organized crime.

mess (somebody) over	to treat someone badly; to beat or harm someone	They MESSED her OVER when she applied for the job. Max messed Lefty over and sent him to the hospital. Max messed over Lefty.

mess somebody up	to cause someone emotional problems	I don't want to mess her up any more than she already is, I decided to leave her alone. He's so messed up. Having just one parent has been known to mess up a kid.
mess somebody up	to rough someone up; to beat someone up	The robbers threatened to mess Bob up if he didn't cooperate. John messed up Bill a little, but no real harm was done.
mess something up	to break, damage, or spoil something	She worries that X-rays could mess up her laptop's hard drive. I messed up my ankle playing touch football. Most of kids at the party were well behaved, but there's always a few who mess things up.
mess something up	to do something badly or make mistakes	I really messed up my chemistry exam. We had a chance to win the game, but we messed it up. Usage notes: sometimes used in the form mess up on something: I messed up on my driving test.
mess something up	to make something disorderly; to create disorder in something; to throw someone's plans awry	You really messed this place up! Who messed up my bed?
mess up	to cause mental, physical or emotional problems	He took a lot of LSD and it really MESSED him UP.
mess up	to make something untidy or dirty	They MESSED UP the room and left stuff all over the place.
mess up	to spoil or ruin	They MESSED UP the discussions and the contract fell through.
mess up	to make an error; to do something wrong; to flub up	I hope I don't mess up on the quiz. You really messed up and now you're in big trouble!
mess up	to spoil, to cause trouble (informal)	The messed up his chance of getting promoted by always being late.

mess with	to annoy, bother	Don't MESS WITH me or there will be trouble.
mess with	to associate (negative)	He's been MESSING WITH some dangerous people.
mess with	to become involved in something damaging or dangerous	He's been MESSING WITH cocaine.
mess with	to try to repair of improve, usually unsuccessfully	She's been MESSING WITH it for hours and it still doesn't work.
mess with somebody	to annoy, worry, or cause problems for someone (Usage notes: often used with not)	I'm tired of people messing with me and not telling me the truth. You don't want to mess with this guy.
mess with something	to become involved with something dangerous	He admitted that he had messed with drugs as a teen. You wouldn't want to mess with a truckload of mail that might be contaminated.
mess with something	to change something in a way that is likely to cause harm	Crime really messes with the quality of life in a community. Don't mess with funding for education programs that have a direct impact on student learning.
mess with something	to take apart or fix something complicated esp	in order to learn more about how it works I enjoy messing with computers the way some folks get pleasure from rebuilding old cars.
mess with something/somebody	to bother or interfere with someone or something	Come on, don't monkey with my new camera. Don't mess with me unless you want trouble.

metamorphose into something	to transform into something	This ugly caterpillar will surely metamorphose into something beautiful At about eighteen, Wally metamorphosed into a reasonably handsome young man.

mete out something	to give or order a punishment	The jail sentences meted out to drug traffickers were considered too light by US officials.
mete out something	to measure something out	She meted the solution out carefully into a row of test tubes. She meted out the cookies to each of them.

migrate (from some place) (to some place)	[for a population] to move from some place to another	The birds all migrate from Europe to Africa. They migrate to Canada from South America.

militate against something	[for something] to work against something	Everything you have said today militates against an early settlement to our disagreement. This really militates against my going to college.

milk somebody for something	to pressure someone into giving information or money	The reporter milked the mayor's aide for information. The thief milked me for $20.

mill around	to wander or move around aimlessly within a small area	Everyone was milling around, looking for something to do. The students milled about between classes.
mill around	to walk around without going anywhere	There were a lot of people MILLING AROUND waiting for the bus.

mine for something	to dig into the ground in search of a mineral, a metal, or an ore	The prospectors ended up mining for coal. What are they mining for in those hills?

mingle (somebody) with (somebody else)	to mix people together; to mix things together	Try to mingle your friends with mine. You had better not mingle your money with that of the corporation.
mingle with somebody	to mix with people	Try to mingle with the guests. I would like to get out and mingle with people more.

mingle in (with somebody)	to join in with someone; to mix with people	I am going to go into the hall and mingle in with the rest of the guests. Ken came into the room and mingled in at once.

minister to something/somebody	to take care of someone or someone's needs	Sarah tried to minister to the people of the village. He sought to minister to the grief of the widow.

minor in something	to study a secondary subject in college (Compare this with major in something)	I minored in math in college. I decided to minor in history.

mislead somebody about something	to misrepresent something to someone	I hope you are not trying to mislead me about the price. I'm afraid I misled you on this matter.

miss (something) by !

miss out	to not do something enjoyable or rewarding	It'll be great; you'll be MISSING OUT if you don't come.
miss out	to not include	Make sure you don't MISS anyone OUT when you call their names.
miss out (on something)	to fail to participate in something; to fail to take part in something	I'm sorry I missed out on the ice cream. I lost out on getting in the class photo because I was sick that day.
miss out (on something)	to fail to use or enjoy an opportunity	Other people my age are married and have families, and I am beginning to feel I am missing out. We missed out on a chance to get a cheaper mortgage.
miss out on	to lose a chance, fail to achieve	Trudy MISSED OUT ON the promotion.

mistake (somebody) for (somebody else)	to confuse someone with someone else; to think that one person is another person	I'm sorry. I mistook you for John. Tom is always mistaking Bill for me. We don't look a thing alike, though. Try not to mix Bill up with Bob, his twin.
mistake somebody/something for somebody/something	to combine things that are not similar, especially things that do not go well together (Usage notes: Pick'n'mix is a system in shops where people can choose a few of several different types of sweets)	Increasingly, students are being given total freedom to pick and mix different modules on their courses.
mistake somebody/something for somebody/something	to confuse two things with each other	Please don't mix this idea up with that one. I mistook my book for yours. Please don't mix this idea up with that one. I mistook my book for yours.
mistake somebody/something for somebody/something	to think that a person or thing is really someone or something else	The prison buildings could almost be mistaken for a college campus.

mix in (with something/somebody)	to mix or combine with people or substances	The band came down from the stage and mixed in with the guests during the break. The eggs won't mix in with the shortening!

mix somebody up	to confuse someone	Please don't ask questions now; you'll mix me up! You mixed up the speaker with your question.
mix somebody up in something	to get someone involved in something	Please don't mix me up in this problem. Walter mixed up his daughter in the sordid affair.
mix something up	to confuse two or more things	I mixed up the twins' names again!
mix something up	to bring something into disorder; to throw something into a state of confusion	Don't mix up the papers on my desk. He mixes up things in his eagerness to speak.
mix something up	to combine substances and mix them together	Please mix the egg up with the sugar first. Please mix up the egg with the sugar.
mix something up	to mix or stir something using a mixing or stirring device	He mixed the batter up with a spoon. First, mix up the batter.
mix something up	to put something in the wrong order or place	If you mix the photos up in these envelopes I'll never find them.
mix something/somebody into something	to combine someone or something into something	We will try to mix the new people into the group. We will mix in the new people a few at a time.
mix up	to confuse; to get it wrong	I always MIX those two sisters UP because they look so like each other. I hate this restaurant, they always mix up my order.
mix up	to make something lively	The DJ MIXED UP the night with some hard techno.
mix up	to mistake one think or person for another	I don't know the members' names yet. I tend to mix them up.
mix up somebody/something	to confuse one person or thing with another Mrs	Albert was always mixing up the two boys even though they didn't look very much alike. I mixed the appointment up and went for a haircut on the wrong day.

mix with something/somebody	to mix socially with someone or a group	Tom dislikes Bill and Ted so much that he could never mix with them socially. She finds it difficult to mix with friends.

moan about something	to complain about something	What are you moaning about? I am not moaning about anything.

moan something out	to say something in a moan	The injured woman moaned the name of her assailant out. She moaned out the name.

mock something up	to make a model or simulation of something	The engineers mocked the new car design up for the managers to see. They mocked up the new car design.

model somebody on somebody	to use something as a pattern for something; to use someone as a pattern for someone	I will model my house on the house we saw in the Mediterranean. She tried to model herself on her mother.

monkey around	to not be serious	The police officer told the drunks to stop MONKEYING AROUND and go home quietly.

mooch (something) from somebody	to beg something from someone	Can I mooch a match from you? Go mooch some money from Fred. Why do you always mooch from people?

mooch about	to spend time doing little or nothing	I MOOCHED ABOUT the whole afternoon because I didn't feel like working.

mooch around	to spend time doing little or nothing	I MOOCHED AROUND the house all day.

moon about something/somebody	to pine or grieve about someone or something	Stop mooning about your cat. Cats always come back eventually. Jill is still mooning over Robert.

moon something away	to waste time pining or grieving	Don't moon the whole year away! You have mooned away half the year. Now pull yourself together!

mop something down	to clean a surface with a mop	Please mop this floor down now. Please mop down this floor.

mop something off	to wipe the liquid off something	Please mop the counter off with paper towels. Mop off the counter.

mop something up	to clean up something, such as a spill, with a mop or with a mopping motion	Please mop this mess up. I will mop up this mess.
mop something up with something	to clean or remove something from something else using a mop, rag, towel, etc.	I can mop the mess up with this old rag mop. She will mop up the mess with the rag.
mop the floor up with somebody	to overwhelm and physically subdue someone; to beat someone	Stop talking like that, or I'll mop the floor up with you! Did you hear that? He threatened to mop up the floor with me!
mop up	to eat a sauce with bread to finish it	The sauce was so delicious that I ordered some bread to MOP it UP.
mop up	to kill or capture the last few enemy soldiers after a victory	After the battle, it took them a couple of weeks to MOP UP the remaining rebels.
mop up	to remove a liquid that has been spilt	I used a cloth to MOP UP the coffee I had knocked over.
mop up	to resolve a problem	He was left to MOP UP the mess after they resigned.
mop up	to clean up with a mop a sloppy mess made by someone or something	I am the one who has to mop up after the mess you made!
mop up	to rectify a problem that someone or something has created	You made a fuss in the conference and upset everyone. I spent hours mopping up after you in private meetings with all in attendance.
mop up (something)	to complete something	The fire wasn't completely out, and we should have stayed and mopped it up.
mop up (something)	to defeat someone easily	Alex is always really good in a debate, she'll wipe the floor with them.
mop up (something)	to remove the results of a problem	Altman's department was in charge of mopping up the banking scandal.
mop up (something)	to remove what has been damaged by a storm or other violent event	California has just started to mop up after two storms blasted the state.
mop up (something)	to rid an area of an enemy	Army troops were mopping up the last of the rebel fighters.
mop up somebody	to defeat someone	The vice president mopped up his opponent in a televised debate. Everyone says he's a great fighter, but Ali could have mopped him up in a second.

mope about	to move around being miserable	She didn't get the job and has been MOPING ABOUT all afternoon.

mope around	to move around being miserable	He's been MOPING AROUND since his girlfriend left him.
mope around	to go about in a depressed state	Since her dog ran away, Sally mopes around all day. Don't mope around. Cheer up!

motion (for) somebody to do something	to give someone a hand signal to do something	The minister motioned the organist to begin playing. I motioned Ken to raise the curtain so the play could begin. Sally motioned for the waiter to bring the check. I will motion to the usher and try to get him to come over here and help us.
motion somebody to one side	to give someone a hand signal to move to the side of something, such as the road (Very similar to motion someone aside)	The cop motioned her to the side of the road. Claire motioned Fred to one side, where she spoke to him.
motion to somebody	to make some sort of hand signal to a person	Did you motion to me? What do you want? I did not motion to you.

motion somebody aside	to give a hand signal to someone to move aside (See also motion someone to one side)	He motioned her aside and had a word with her. I motioned aside the guard and asked him a question.

motion somebody away from something/somebody	to give a hand signal to someone to move away from someone or something	She motioned me away from Susan. The police officer motioned the boys away from the wrecked car.

mount something against something/somebody	to create or instigate something against someone or something	The prosecutor mounted a questionable case against Robert. The state mounted a very complex case against the company.

mount something on something	to place or attach something onto something	Mount the butterflies on plain white paper. Sue mounted her favorite stamps on a display board.

mount up	to increase over time	My debts MOUNTED UP while I was at university.
mount up	to get up on a horse	Mount up and let's get out of here! Please mount up so we can leave.
mount up	[for something] to increase in amount or extent	Expenses really mount up when you travel. Medical expenses mount up very fast when you're in the hospital.

mourn for something/somebody	to grieve for someone or something	Everyone will mourn for you when you go. We all mourned over the end of the holiday. There is no point in mourning over your cat. It won't come back.

mouth off	to speak angrily about something	I always get angry and start MOUTHING OFF when the news is on TV.

move (from some place) (to some place)	to travel from one place to another	The whole family moved from Denver to Chicago. We moved to the country.
move from (somewhere)

move in	to arrive in a new home or office	You've bought a new house? When are you moving in?
move in (to)	to start living in an apartment, house, with someone, etc.	Tom moved in with his girlfriend. I moved into a new apartment last month.

move on	to change the subject or your job	She MOVED ON to another company where the salary was considerably better.
move on	to make people move from a place	The police MOVED the crowd ON because they were holding up the traffic.
move on	to continue	Let's move on. What's the next topic?

move out	to leave your home/office for another one.	My neighbour is leaving. He's moving out next Saturday.
move out (of)	to stop living in an apartment, house, etc.	Sarah moved out last month. She moved in with her mother. I moved out of my old apartment last month.
move out (of)

mow down somebody/something	to cut, knock, or shoot someone or something down	The speeding car almost mowed us down. The car mowed down the pedestrian.
mow down somebody/something	to violently cause someone or something to fall	The car skidded along the side of the road and mowed down several mailboxes before coming to a stop. A young woman was mowed down in a public market by narcotics traffickers.

muck around (with something)	to do something without a serious purpose	Why was she mucking around in such a risky neighborhood? I kept working on this text until I thought it was good, and then I tried not to muck around with it anymore.

muck something up	something that you say which means you can make a lot of money from work that most people do not want to do because they think it is dirty or unpleasant	Decorating's a messy job, but where there's muck, there's brass.
muck something up	to make a situation more confusing or difficult	Our leaders have demonstrated their great talent for mucking things up. Don't muck up our lives just because he was misbehaving.

muddle along	to progress in confusion; to continue awkwardly	I will just have to muddle along as best I can until things get straightened out. The project muddled along until the new manager got hold of it.

muddle around	to work inefficiently	I can't get anything done today. I'm just muddling around. Jed is not doing his job well. He is muddling around and getting nothing done.

muddle something up	to mix something up; to make something confusing	You really muddled the language of this contract up. Who muddled up the wording?

muddle through (something)	intoxicated	I've had a little too much muddler, I think. Anyway, I'm muddled. Larry is too muddled up to drive.
muddle through (something)	to continue despite confusion and difficulties	My grandparents muddled through droughts and crop failures and family crises.
muddle through (something)	to manage to get through something awkwardly	We hadn't practiced the song enough, so we just muddled through it. We didn't know what we were meant to do, so we muddled through.

muddy something up	to make something unclear	You have really muddied this issue up. I thought I understood it. You sure muddied up this issue.
muddy something up	to make water muddy; to stir up the mud in water, as at the bottom of a pond or river	Don't muddy the water up. It will clog our filters. Don't muddy up the water.

muffle something up	to deaden or stifle a sound	Betty tried to muffle the sounds up, but everyone heard what was going on. She muffled up the sounds.

mug up	to study quickly, revise	I have to MUG UP before the exam.
mug up on	to study something quickly, revise	I need to MUG UP ON my history for the test.

mull over	to think about an issue or problem	She said that she'd had to MULL IT OVER before deciding what was right for her.
mull over something	to think about something; to ponder or worry about something	That's an interesting idea, but I'll have to mull it over. I'll mull over your suggestions and reply to you next week.
mull over something	to think carefully about something for a period of time	She asked me what I thought about her idea, and I said I would have to mull it over. Bill mulled over the pros and cons of this job offer.

multiply by something	to use the arithmetic process of multiplication to expand numerically a certain number of times	To get the amount of your taxes, multiply by .02Can you multiply by sixteens?
multiply something by something	to use the arithmetic process of multiplication to expand numerically a particular number a certain number of times	Multiply the number of dependents you are claiming by one thousand dollars. Multiply 12 by 16 and tell me what you get.

munch out	to overeat	I can't help it. Whenever I see french fries, I just have to munch out. I try not to munch out more than once a week.

murder on something	very destructive or harmful to something	Running a marathon is murder on your knees. This dry weather is murder on my crops.

murmur against something/somebody	to grumble about someone or something	Everyone was murmuring against the manager. The citizens will begin murmuring about the government soon.

muscle in	to become involved in something when your involvement is not wanted	We tried to exclude him of the committee, but he MUSCLED IN.
muscle in (on something/somebody)	to try forcefully to displace someone or take over someone's property, interests, or relationships	Are you trying to muscle in on my scheme? If you try to muscle in, you'll be facing big trouble.
muscle in on	to become involved in something despite opposition to your involvement	She MUSCLED IN ON the deal even though we wanted to do it without her.
muscle in on something	to force a way into someone's business or other relationships in order to control them	Russell was the governor's closest friend, and he didn't like it when someone tried to muscle in on that relationship. These people pretended to be my friends, but they just wanted to muscle in on my life.

muscle into	to become involved even though there is opposition to your involvement	They are MUSCLING INTO our market and there is very little we can do to stop them.

muscle out	to use power, contacts, etc., to force someone out	They used their contacts in local government to MUSCLE the competitors OUT.
muscle somebody out of something	to force someone out of something; to push someone out of something (Can be physical or by coercion)	Are you trying to muscle me out of my job? The younger people are muscling out the older ones.

muse over something/somebody	to reflect or meditate on someone or something	We were just now musing over Sarah and the way she has changed. Tom is so strange. I was musing over his behavior just yesterday.

mushroom into something	to grow suddenly into something large or important	The question of pay suddenly mushroomed into a major matter. The unpaid bill mushroomed into a nasty argument and, finally, a court battle.

muss something/somebody up	to put someone or something into disarray	Don't muss me up! You mussed up my hair. I'm afraid I mussed myself up a little.

muster out of something	to be discharged from military service	He mustered out of the service before his time was up. I want to know how I can muster out too.

muster something up	to call up some quality, such as courage	Do you think you can muster enough courage up to do the job? Can you muster up enough strength to do the job?

mutiny against something/somebody	to rebel against a ship's captain or the captain's authority	The crew mutinied against the officers. They know better than to mutiny against an authority as great as that held by Captain Bligh.
mutiny against something/somebody	to rebel against someone or something	It does no good to mutiny against the professor. The students mutinied against the school's administration.

mutter something about something/somebody	to say something softly and indistinctly about someone or something	I heard him mutter something about being late. Sharon is muttering something about Dave. What does she mean?


naff off	to get lost, go away (used as imperative)	He was making a fuss, so I told him to NAFF OFF.

nag at	repeatedly criticize someone verbally	My boss is always NAGGING AT me about my arriving a few minutes late for work.
nag at somebody (about something/somebody)	to pester someone about someone or something	Don't keep nagging at me about her. Stop nagging at me!

nail down	to get full information from someone	I can not NAIL them DOWN about when they are going to finish the project.
nail down	to succeed in getting, achieve	They are having trouble NAILING DOWN the contract.
nail down	to succeed or achieve something	I NAILED the job DOWN in the first interview.
nail down	to make sure; To finalize	We're still trying to nail down the specifics.
nail down	to understand fully	I can not NAIL DOWN what is wrong with their idea, but I am sure it would not work.

name after	to give someone a name to remember another person	I was NAMED AFTER my uncle who died in the war.
name after	to give someone the same name as someone else (usually a family member or someone famous)	She was named after her great grandmother.

narrow something down (to people or things)	to reduce a list of possibilities from many to a selected few	We can narrow the choice down to green or red. We narrowed down the choice to you or Paul.

needle somebody about something/somebody	to pester or bother someone about someone or something	Please don't needle me about Jane. Stop needling me about eating out.

neglect to do something	to fail to do something	I hope you do not neglect to lock the door. He neglected to water the plants.

negotiate (with something/somebody) (over something/somebody)	to bargain with someone or a group about someone or something	We decided to negotiate with them over the terms of the contract. We want to negotiate with them about the cost of the goods. They refused to negotiate with our purchasing agent.

neither does somebody	[does] not either	Susan does not own a cat, and neither does Mary. Bill doesn't want to see a movie tonight, and neither do I.

nerves of !

nervous about something

nest in something	to build a nest in something and live in it	Some mice nested in a corner of the garage. The birds nested in the eaves.

nest together	to fit together or within one another compactly	These mixing bowls nest together. I want some of those Russian wooden dolls that nest together.

nestle (up) against something/somebody	to lie close to someone or something; to cuddle up to someone or something	The kitten nestled up against its mother. The shivering puppy nestled up to Kathy.

nestle down (in something)	to settle down in something; to snuggle into something, such as a bed	They nestled down in their warm bed. Please nestle down and go to sleep.

nibble at something	to take tiny bites of some kind of food	The children nibbled at their dinner because they had eaten too much candy. Stop nibbling at that candy.

nibble away at something	to eat at something in tiny bits; to erode away tiny bits of something	The waves nibbled away at the base of the cliff, year after year. The mice nibbled away at the huge wheel of cheese.

niggle (over something) (with somebody)	to have a petty disagreement over some minor thing	Stop niggling over this with me! I don't want to niggle with you over this.

niggle about something	to make constant petty complaints about something	Please don't niggle about little things like this. This is just not important. Let's not niggle about it.

nip off	to go somewhere quickly	I'm NIPPING OFF to get some milk.
nip something off (of) something	to clip or cut something off something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Let me nip a few blossoms off the rosebush. I nipped off a few blossoms and made a bouquet.

nip out	to go somewhere quickly	She'll be back in a minute- she's just NIPPED OUT to the shops.

nip something in !

nod at somebody	to make a motion to someone with one's head indicating a greeting, agreement, or something else	I nodded at Fred, but I really didn't agree. Molly nodded at Fred, and Fred, knowing she wanted to leave the party, went for their coats. When she offered him some ice cream, he only nodded. She thought he was rude and decided not to give him any.

nod off	to fall asleep, to take a cat nap	I NODDED OFF during the speech. Jim was so tired that he began to nod off during the meeting. My grandfather often nods off in front of the velevision.
nod off	to go to sleep, esp	when not in bed or intending to sleep I nodded off once or twice during the movie.

nominate somebody as something	to suggest someone to be the candidate to serve as something	I would like to nominate Karen as our representative. She nominated herself as the one most likely to do the job.

nominate somebody for something	to suggest someone as a candidate for a particular office	I will nominate Carolyn for president. You cannot nominate yourself for this office.

nominate somebody to something	to suggest someone to become a member of a group	I am the one who nominated her to the board. The president nominated herself to the position of chairman of the board.

nose about	to look for something hidden or secret	The police are NOSING ABOUT to see if they can find anything against the gang.

nose around	to look around for evidence	The boss keeps NOSING AROUND our office when we are out at lunch.
nose around	to look for something (secret), to pry	I hate it when my brother noses around my room.

nose something (out) (onto something)	to drive or push something carefully out onto the surface of something, nose first	I nosed the car out onto the highway, looking both ways. She nosed out the car.

nosh on something	to make a snack of something	After Thanksgiving, we noshed on turkey for three days. Who's been noshing on the chocolate cake?

not be a barrel of laughs	to not be enjoyable 'He's a bit serious, isn't he?' 'Yeah, not exactly a barrel of laughs.'
not be a barrel of laughs	to select from among the worst; to choose from what is left over	You've bought a bad-looking car. You really scraped the bottom of the barrel to get that one. The worker you sent over was the worst I've ever seen. Send me another - ;and don't scrape the bottom of the barrel.
not be a bundle of laughs	to not be entertaining or enjoyable	She's not a bundle of laughs, your cousin. The funeral wasn't exactly a bundle of laughs.
not be a bundle of laughs	to save a lot of money on the purchase of something	I managed to save a bundle on a car by buying a used one.
not be for the faint-hearted	if something is not for the faint-hearted, it is not suitable for people who become frightened easily	The drive along the winding coast road is not for the faint-hearted, particularly when it's foggy.
not be for the faint-hearted	people who are squeamish; someone who is sickened or disturbed by unpleasantness or challenge	The pathway around the top of the volcano, near the crater, is not for the faint of heart.
not be on speaking terms	on friendly terms with someone (Often with the negative)	I'm not on speaking terms with Mary. We had a serious disagreement. We're not on speaking terms.
not be on speaking terms	to be refusing to talk to someone because you have had an argument and are still angry with them (often + with)	She's not on speaking terms with her ex-husband. Jeanette and her mother haven't been on speaking terms since the wedding.
not be short of a bob or two	to have a lot of money	This guy Lester that she's engaged to, he's not short of a bob or two you know.
not be somebody's cup of tea	if someone or something is not your cup of tea, you do not like them or you are not interested in them	If Yeats isn't your cup of tea, why not try some of the more contemporary Irish poets?
not be somebody's cup of tea	Many things may happen to prevent you from carrying out what you intend to do	Bob: Now that I have a contract with a publisher, nothing in the world can stop me from writing this book. Alan: Don't be so sure. There's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip.
not be the only pebble on the beach	to not be the only person who is important in a situation or in a group	Laura always expects to get her own way. It's time she learned that she's not the only pebble on the beach.
not be up to scratch	to not be of an acceptable standard or quality	I'm afraid your last essay wasn't up to scratch (British & Australian) (British & Australian)
not be up to scratch	You do a favor for me and	I'll do a favor for you;; If you do something for me that I cannot do for myself, I will do something for you that you cannot do for yourself. I'll grab the box on the top shelf if you will creep under the table and pick up my pen. You scratch my back, and I'll scratch yours.
not be worth a hill of beans	to give away a secret or a surprise	There is a surprise party for Heidi on Wednesday. Please don't spill the beans. Paul spilled the works about Heidi's party.
not be worth a hill of beans	to have very little or no value	None of those guys is worth a hill of beans, so don't worry about what they say.
not be worth the paper it's/they're printed/written on	an important part of a document that is not easily noticed because of the smallness of the printing	You should have read the small print before signing the contract. You should always read the fine print of an insurance policy.
not be worth the paper it's/they're printed/written on	if an agreement or decision is not worth the paper it is written on, it has no value or importance	A qualification like that isn't worth the paper it's written on.
not be worth the paper it's/they're printed/written on	to write something down	You have a great idea for a novel. Now put it on paper. I'm sorry, I can't discuss your offer until I see something in writing. Put it on paper, and then we'll talk.
not budge/give an inch	to refuse to change your opinion or agree to even very small changes that another person wants	I keep asking her to think again, but she won't budge an inch (sometimes + on). He refuses to give an inch on health and safety issues.
not budge/give an inch	very close to losing one's life; almost to death	The accident frightened me within an inch of my life. When Mary was seriously ill in the hospital, she came within an inch of her life.
not by any stretch (of the imagination)	even if you try, it is still difficult to accept	She was never a great player, not by any stretch of the imagination. He's nice-looking but by no stretch of the imagination could you describe him as handsome. Our survey was purely random and by no stretch scientific. Usage notes: sometimes used in the form by any stretch (of the imagination) (even possibly): It's the only plan that could, by any stretch, be relied upon to work.
not by any stretch of the imagination	Do not spend more money than you have	Sue: I can get enough money for college if I take out several loans. Bill: I'd advise against it. Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
not by any stretch of the imagination	if you say that by no stretch of the imagination can you describe something or someone in a particular way, you mean that this way of describing them is certainly not correct	She was never a great player, not by any stretch of the imagination. He's pleasant looking but by no stretch of the imagination could you describe him as handsome.
not care for somebody/something	not like (formal)	I don't care for his behaviour.
not dwell on something	to live on something, such as the planet Earth (Upon is more formal than on)	This is the largest turtle that dwells upon the earth. Many creatures dwell on this earth.
not dwell on something	to not spend a lot of time thinking or talking about something	I knew how important this test was but I didn't want to dwell on it. My mother's advice always was, "Don't dwell on it, do something about it!" Usage notes: also used without not: She dwells on the past a little too much.
not give a damn (about somebody/something)	to meddle with something; to play with something, trying to get it to work or work better	Let me tinker around with it for a while and see if I can get it to work. Please don't tinker with the controls.
not give a damn (about somebody/something)	to not be interested in or worried about something or someone (often + question word)	I don't give a tinker's cuss what she thinks, I'll do what I want! He's never given a tinker's damn for me, or for any of the family.
not give a damn (about somebody/something)	to not be interested in someone or something not give a shit (about somebody/something)	The beginning was so boring, I really didn't give a damn what happened in the rest of the movie. We didn't give a tinker's damn about justice. Usage notes: although always suggesting a negative meaning, sometimes used without not: Who really gives a damn about the details?
not give something/somebody house room	any private group of men who make decisions, usually political decisions (See also)	The boys in the back room picked the last presidential candidate. The backroom boys have decided too many things in the past. Their day is over.
not give something/somebody house room	to refuse to become involved with someone or something, because you do not like them or approve of them	A respectable organization shouldn't be giving house room to a bunch of bigoted fanatics.
not go a bundle on something	to not like something	I don't go a bundle on Anne's new haircut.
not going to win any beauty contests	homely; ugly	Fred isn't going to win any beauty contests, but he's smart and considerate and he does well at his job. This old truck of mine is not going to win any beauty contests, but I wouldn't trade it for anything.
not have a minute to call your own	Please be patient, someone will attend to you very soon (The someone can be any person's name or a pronoun, typically I; If there is no one mentioned, I is implied; The minute can be replaced by moment or second)	Sue: Oh, Miss? Clerk: Someone will be with you in a minute. Bill: Please wait here. I'll be with you in a minute. Bob: Please hurry.
not have a minute to call your own	to be extremely busy	With a full-time job and a family to look after, I don't have a minute to call my own.
not have a pot to piss in	to be very poor	Any help we can offer them will be appreciated. They don't have a pot to piss in.
not have a pot to piss in	to make someone angry (Crude; Potentially offensive, even though it is widely used; Use with discretion)	She really pissed me off! That's enough to piss off anybody.
not have a pot to piss in	You cannot fit too much of something into a space that is too small	That dog is simply too big to get into this kennel. You can't get a quart into a pint pot. Our refrigerator isn't big enough to fit that watermelon in. You can't get a quart into a pint pot.
not have a snowball's chance in hell	to have no chance at all of achieving something (usually + of + doing sth)	With those grades she hasn't a snowball's chance in hell of getting into college.
not have a snowball's chance in hell	[for something] to become larger or more serious by growing like a snowball being rolled	This whole problem is snowballing into a crisis very rapidly. The argument soon snowballed into a full-blown riot.
not have a snowball's chance in hell and not a hope in hell	a very poor chance (Usually in the negative)	She doesn't have a snowball's chance in hell of getting it done on time. I know I don't have a hope in hell, but I'll try anyway.
not have a stitch of clothes (on)	naked	He walked through the house and didn't have a stitch of clothes on.
not have the stomach (for something)	to not feel strong or brave enough to do something unpleasant (Usage notes: sometimes used in the form not have the stomach to do something)	The soldiers did not have the stomach for another fight. I don't think I've got the stomach to argue with her again about money.
not have the stomach for something	If you want a man to love you, you should feed him good food	Sue: I want Keith to notice me, but he doesn't even know I'm alive. Mother: Invite him over and cook him a good meal. The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
not have the stomach for something	to not feel brave or determined enough to do something unpleasant	Demoralised and exhausted, the soldiers did not have the stomach for another fight.
not in the slightest	not in any way not in the least	The whole stupid argument didn't interest me in the slightest.
not judge a book by its cover	something that you say which means you cannot judge the quality or character of someone or something just by looking at them She doesn't look very intelligent, but you can't judge a book by its cover.
not judge a book by its cover	to not be able to really know about someone or something by simply looking at them	She doesn't look very bright, but you can't judge a book by its cover.
not know beans (about something/somebody)	to know nothing about someone or something	Bill doesn't know beans about flying an airplane. When it comes to flying, I don't know beans.
not know beans about something	to know nothing about something	I don't know beans about computers - I've never even used one.
not know beans about something	to know nothing about something not know the first thing about something	I don't know beans about computers - I've never even used one.
not know enough to come in out of the rain	to be very stupid	Bob is so stupid he doesn't know enough to come in out of the rain. You can't expect very much from somebody who doesn't know enough to come in out of the rain.
not let somebody catch somebody doing something	an expression that scolds someone who has done something wrong (The idea is that the person ought not to do the wrong thing again, not that the person simply avoid getting caught)	How many times have I told you not to play ball in the house? Don't let me catch you doing that again. If I've told you once, I've told you a thousand times: Don't do that! I don't want to catch you doing it again!
not let the grass grow under one's feet	not to stay in one place for a long time; to be always on the move	He is always doing something. He never lets the grass grow under his feet. I have always thought that I ought not to let the grass grow under my feet. Jane: Last night I told Alan that we needed a new bookshelf, and he had built one by the time I got home today. Jill: Boy, he doesn't let the grass grow under his feet.
not let the grass grow under your feet	People always think they would be happier in a different set of circumstances (Usually implies that the other circumstances really are not any better)	Jill: My job is so tedious. I wish I had my own business, like Beatrice does. Jane: Beatrice probably wishes she had the security of her old job. The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
not let the grass grow under your feet	to not waste time by delaying doing something	We can't let the grass grow under our feet - we've really got to get going with this project.
not lift a finger (to help somebody)	to do nothing to help someone (The someone is anyone with the negative)	They wouldn't lift a finger to help us. Can you imagine that they wouldn't lift a finger? Sally refused to lift a hand to help her own sister.
not look a gift horse in the mouth	if someone tells you not to look a gift horse in the mouth, they mean that you should not criticize or feel doubt about something good that has been offered to you	Okay, it's not the job of your dreams but it pays good money. I'd be inclined not to look a gift horse in the mouth if I were you.
not look a gift horse in the mouth	to be ungrateful to someone who gives you something; to treat someone who gives you a gift badly (Usually with a negative)	Never look a gift horse in the mouth. I advise you not to look a gift horse in the mouth.
not miss something for the world	would not miss something for any reason at all	Of course I'll be at your wedding. I wouldn't miss it for the world.
not one's cup of tea	not one's choice or preference (Used to describe an activity you do not enjoy; Can sound somewhat affected)	You three visit the museum without me. Looking at fussy old paintings is not my cup of tea. Going to church, Mary said, was not her cup of tea.
not room to swing a cat	if there is not room to swing a cat in a place, that place is very small	There isn't room to swing a cat in the third room, it's so tiny. Get a sofa in the living room? You'll be lucky - there isn't room to swing a cat in there.
not room to swing a cat	to attempt to punch someone	He took a swing at me! Tom took a swing at Bob, but Bob ducked out of the way.
not see somebody for dust	if you say that you won't see someone for dust, you mean that they will leave a place very quickly, usually in order to avoid something	If you tell her that Jim's coming, you won't see her for dust!
not see somebody for dust	when the dust falls out of the air	When the dust settles, we will have to begin sweeping it up.
not see somebody for dust	when things have calmed down	When the dust settles, we can start patching up all the hurt feelings.
not somebody's cup of tea	not what someone likes or is interested in (Usage notes: also used without not)	I realize a fantasy computer game is not everyone's cup of tea, but this one is amazing. I like suspense in movies. It's my cup of tea.
not somebody's cup of tea	something that you say in order to warn someone not to be too confident about the result of a plan, because many things can go wrong before it is completed	We still might finish in time for the deadline, but there's many a slip twixt cup and lip.
not take a blind bit of notice	to ignore something and pretend you do not see it	The usher turned a blind eye to the little boy who sneaked into the theater. How can you turn a blind eye to all those starving children?
not take a blind bit of notice	to not give someone or something any attention at all	Protesters were shouting and waving banners outside the embassy, but no-one took a blind bit of notice (often + of) They didn't take a blind bit of notice of our objections.
not take a blind bit of notice	with some kind of notification or indication that something is going to happen or is expected before it actually happens	We are happy to provide special meals for anyone with advance notice.
not take anything for granted	to believe that something is true without first thinking about it or making sure that it is true (usually + that)	I'd always seen them together and just took it for granted that they were married.
not take anything for granted	to question everything, including what is usually accepted as true (Usage notes: also used in the form take nothing for granted)	He did not take his luck for granted and worked constantly to be an even better dancer. The president took nothing for granted and worked hard to gain the support of Congress.
not take no for an answer	if someone will not take no for an answer, they continue asking for something although their request has already been refused	I've told her again and again that you're too busy to see her, but she won't take no for an answer.
not take no for an answer	If you speak softly and meekly to someone who is angry with you, that person will calm down (Biblical)	It won't do any good for you to yell at John because he yelled at you. Remember that a soft answer turneth away wrath.
not take no for an answer	not to accept someone's refusal (A polite way of being insistent)	Now, you must drop over and see us tomorrow. We won't take no for an answer. I had to go to their party. They just wouldn't take no for an answer.
not take no for an answer	to be unwilling to accept a refusal	She sent faxes, made phone calls, sent e-mail - she just wouldn't take no for an answer.
not to be sneezed/sniffed at	if something or someone is not to be sneezed at, they are important or dangerous enough to deserve serious attention	Goodman is not a man to be sniffed at (American & Australian informal)
not to be sneezed/sniffed at	if something, especially an amount of money, is not to be sneezed at, it is large enough to be worth having	And there's the increase in salary to be considered. ВЈ3000 extra a year is not to be sneezed at.
not to be sneezed/sniffed at	to aim a sneeze onto someone or something, probably by accident	Don't sneeze on me! Don't sneeze on anything. Cover your nose and mouth!
not touch something with a ten-foot pole	to not want to become involved with something (Usage notes: often used as a warning)	If I were you, I wouldn't touch that job with a ten-foot pole.
not touch something/somebody with a ten-foot pole	not to have anything to do with someone or something (Always negative)	No, I won't hire Fred. I wouldn't touch him with a ten-foot pole. I wouldn't touch that job with a ten-foot pole.
not up to scratch and not up to snuff	not adequate	Sorry, your paper isn't up to scratch. Please do it over again. The performance was not up to snuff.
not with a bang but with a whimper	if something ends not with a bang but with a whimper, it ends in a disappointing way	The concert ended not with a bang but with a whimper, the rain forcing the performance to stop fifteen minutes early.
not worth the paper something is printed on	to have no value or importance	He's got a degree from an online university that's not worth the paper it's printed on. The landlord's promises were not worth the paper they were written on.
not worth the paper something is printed on	to start to write something	I keep meaning to write to her but I haven't yet managed to put pen to paper.

notch above (something/somebody)	a little higher in quality than someone or something	This latest candidate we interviewed seems a notch above the rest, so let's hire her. That telescope is a notch better than the others in terms of magnification.

notch below (something/somebody)	a little lower in quality than someone or something	I believe that this wine is a notch below the one we had with the fish.

notch something up	to count up something; to add up or score something	We notched yet another victory up in our efforts to regain the trophy. Well, it looks like we notched up another victory.

note down	write something down	I'll call the station and note down the departure times.
note down	write something short like a phone number for future reference	She NOTED DOWN my fax number so that she could send me the documents when she got to the office.
note something down	to write down a note about something	Please note these words down. Note down the following facts.

nothing to boast about	not worth bragging about; mediocre	In high school, my grades were acceptable, but they were nothing to boast about. Jill: Does this town have a good library? Nancy: It's nothing to boast about.
nothing to choose from	no choice; no choice in the selection; not enough of something to make a choice	I went to the store looking for new shoes, but there was nothing to choose from. By the time I got around to selecting a team of helpers, there was nothing to choose from.
nothing to sneeze at	something that deserves serious attention	An extra two thousand bucks a year is nothing to sneeze at.
nothing to sneeze at	when one person or organization has a problem, this problem has a much worse effect on another person or organization	When New York sneezes, I'm afraid London catches a cold - that is just the way the stock markets operate now. If the country's economy catches a cold, local businesses get pneumonia.
nothing to write home about	if you say you could write what you know about a subject on the back of a postage stamp, you mean you know very little about that subject	What I know about car maintenance could be written on the back of a postage stamp.
nothing to write home about	mediocre; not as good as you expected	I went to that new restaurant last night. It's nothing to write home about. Jill: I went to see a movie last night. Jane: How was it? Jill: Nothing to write home about.
nothing to write home about	not something that is especially good or exciting (Usage notes: often used as a humorous way to describe something that is obviously bad)	The food was all right but nothing to write home about. War is nothing to write home about.

notify somebody about something/somebody	to inform someone about someone or something	Please notify the insurance company about the accident. I have to notify the doctor about Ed, who is ill.

notify somebody of something	to inform someone about something	Can you notify my parents of my arrival at the airport? We were notified of it last night.

nowhere near	not in any way	It was a long list and it was nowhere near complete. The movie was nowhere near as bad as Erin said it was. Holzman was nowhere near the player Carey is. Usage notes: used for emphasis.

nudge something/somebody aside	to push or bump someone or something out of the way	We nudged the old man aside and went on ahead. She nudged aside the cat to make room on the sofa.

number of things or people	some things or people, in an indefinite amount	I subscribe to a number of different magazines. A number of people are here now.

nurse a grudge (against somebody)	to keep resenting and disliking someone over a period of time (Usually implies that it has been an unreasonably long time)	Sally is still nursing a grudge against Mary. How long can anyone nurse a grudge?

nurse somebody (or an animal) along	to aid or encourage the well-being or return to health of someone or an animal	She nursed the old man along for a few years until he died. She nursed along the invalid. The vet nursed the horse along for the rest of the night. He nursed himself along with chicken noodle soup and hot baths until the virus ran its course.
nurse something along	to manage something with care and thrift (See also nurse someone or an animal along)	The board of directors agreed to nurse the firm along for a while and then sell it. She nursed along the failing business until it was showing a profit.

nurse somebody back to health	to care for a sick person until good health returns	Sally was glad to help nurse her mother back to health. She nursed her children back to health when they all had the flu.

nurse somebody through (something)	to care for a sick person during the worst part of a sickness or recovery	There was no one there to nurse him through the worst part of his illness. It was a horrible ordeal, but John nursed her through.

nut out	find an answer to a problem	The management and unions had a meeting to NUT things OUT.

nut up	to go crazy (See also crack up)	I knew I would nut up if I didn't quit that job. I almost nutted up at the last place I worked.

nuzzle up against something/somebody	[for an animal] to rub its nose against someone or something; to rub against someone or something, softly, in the manner of rubbing the nose against someone or something; to snuggle up to someone or something (Nuzzle is related to nose)	The dog nuzzled up against my leg, wanting to be friends. The dog nuzzled up to me and licked my hand.


object to (something)	I object to your tone. They objected to having a test on the last day of class. I object to doing all the work.

oblige somebody by something	to accommodate someone by doing something	Please oblige me by closing the window. Would you oblige me by accompanying me to the dance?

oblige somebody to do something	to require someone to do something	You are obliged to arrive on time and enter by the side door. The lateness of the hour obliged Tony to enter by the back door.

oblige somebody with something	to accommodate someone with something	He obliged her with a willing attitude. Please oblige me with a big piece of cake.

obliterate something/somebody from something	to destroy or wipe out someone or something from something	Karen obliterated the writing from the wall. Max set out to obliterate Lefty "Fingers" Moran from the face of the earth.

obtain something for something/somebody	to get or receive something for someone or something	I promised I would obtain a pet for Becky. I obtained a new part for the vacuum cleaner.

occupy oneself (by something)	to keep busy by doing something	Don't worry. I can occupy myself by knitting or sewing. While waiting, I occupied myself by knitting a scarf.

occupy somebody with something	to keep someone busy with something	Can you occupy the child with this toy? Here, occupy yourself with this crossword puzzle.

occur to	to enter one's mind	Didn't it OCCUR TO you to help me when you saw how much trouble I was in?
occur to	to come to one's mind; To make one realize	It just occurred to me that I don't even know his name.
occur to you	to come into your mind (Usage notes: often used in the form not occur to you)	Did it occur to you to call my apartment to see if I was there? It never occurred to me to ask where she'd been. It hadn't occurred to her that she would be expected to ride a bike.
occur to you	[for an idea or thought] to come into someone's mind	It occurred to me that you might be hungry after your long journey. Would it ever occur to you that I want to be left alone?

oceans of something/somebody	a very large amount of something	The naughty student was in oceans of trouble. After a week of vacation, there was an ocean of work to do.

offend against something/somebody	to anger or affront someone or something	We do not wish to offend against anyone. He didn't realize that he offended against their cultural values.

offend somebody with something	to anger or affront someone with something	Don't offend us with your bad jokes. I offended Ralph with my constant niggling.

offer something for something	to suggest a certain amount of money as a purchase price for something	I'll offer you ten bucks for that watch. They offered me very little for my car.

offer something to somebody (as something)	to propose giving something to someone as a gift, peace offering, payment, etc.	They offered us a bunch of flowers as a peace offering. As an apology, I offered a gift to the hostess.

officiate (as something) (at something)	to serve as an official or moderator at some event	They asked me to officiate as a judge at the contest. Laura will officiate as parade marshal.

ogle (at) something/somebody	to stare at someone or something, usually with amorous or erotic relish	Don't just stand there and ogle at me! Stop ogling at those magazines.

omit something/somebody from something	to leave someone or something out of something	You omitted Carol from the list. I think that you omitted our company from the bidding. She omitted herself from the list of participants.

ooze (out) (from something/somebody)	to seep out of someone or something	The heavy oil oozed out from the hole in the barrel. Some blood was oozing out of his nose.

ooze with something	to flow or seep with something; to be covered with some oozing substance	The wound oozed with blood. The roast beef oozed with juices.
ooze with something	[for someone] to exude an ingratiating or insincere manner	The used-car salesman oozed with insincerity. The young woman oozed with charm.

open up	to allow goods into a market	Before they joined the WTO, they had to OPEN UP their markets.
open up	to open a shop or business for the day	They OPEN UP at seven in the morning.
open up	to start to talk freely about something	She hates to OPEN UP and discuss her feelings.
open up	to talk about one's feelings honestly	I don't usually open up to people this way.

operate against something/somebody	to work against someone or something; to have a negative effect on someone or something	All of this operates against our idea affixing the garage up as a family room. The new vacation policy operates against my plan to take all of July off.

operate from something	to work out of something or some place	I'm in business for myself. I operate from my home. We operate from a garage in the back of City Hall.

operate on
operate on somebody	to perform a surgical operation on someone	They decided not to operate on her. She wasn't operated on after all.
operate on something	to function or conduct business on a certain principle or assumption	The company has always operated on the theory that the customer is always right. Sam operates on the assumption that everyone is out to get him.
operate on something	to work on something; to work with the insides of something (As a surgeon might operate)	He tried to operate on his watch and ruined it. Todd operated on the door lock and fixed it.

opt for	to choose	I OPTED FOR an endowment mortgage and lost a lot of money.
opt for something	to choose a particular option	I opted for the orange one. I opt for not going out at all.

opt in favor of something/somebody	to choose a particular person; to choose a particular thing	Do you think she will opt in favor of this one or that? We will opt in favor of David.
opt in(to something)	to choose to join in	She opted into our plans. She opted in almost immediately.

opt out	to choose not to be part of something	The UK OPTED OUT of a lot of EU legislation on working hours and conditions.
opt out	to leave a system or decide not to participate	I enjoy tennis but I'm so busy I had to opt out of the tournament.
opt out (of something)	to choose not to be in something	If you do that, I'm going to have to opt out of the club. Then go ahead and opt out.

orbit (around) something/somebody	to circle around something in an orbit	The flies orbited around Fred and his ice-cream cone. Many satellites orbit around our planet.

order somebody off !

orient somebody to something	to help someone adjust to something, a position, or a relationship	Will you please orient Bill to our routine? She found it difficult to orient herself to the new procedures.
orient somebody to something	to help someone locate a compass direction or other similar location	Try to orient Karen to the light so I can photograph her. It took time, but I oriented myself to north at last.

originate from something	to come from something or some place	Did you originate from around here? I originated from a different area of the country. Some of our customs originate from old beliefs.

originate in something	to have had a beginning in something or some place	The river originates in the Andes Mountains. All your troubles originate in your lungs.

originate with something/somebody	to have been started by someone, something, or during a time period or event	Did this policy originate with you? This idea originated with the committee.

ornament something with something	to decorate something with something	The driver ornamented his truck with lots of chrome. The room was ornamented with velvet drapes, wood paneling, family portraits - ;a den of Victorian virtue.

oscillate between (something/somebody and something/somebody else)	to swing between (choosing) someone and someone else; to swing between (choosing) something and something else	Fred oscillated between going to college and getting a job. The boss oscillated between John and Roger.

oust somebody from something	to force someone to leave something or some place; to throw someone out of something or some place	They ousted the boys from the bar. The underage kids were ousted from the tavern quickly.

out front	in the front of one's house	Our mailbox is out front. We have a spruce tree out front and a maple tree in the back.
out front	leading, as in a race	My horse was out front by two lengths until the final turn. The other candidate is out front in the polls.

out in !

out of !

out to !

overflow into something	to spill over into something	The river overflowed into the surrounding farmland. The water in the bowl overflowed into the sink.

overflow with something/somebody	to have so much or so many people or things that they spill over	The kitchen overflowed with the guests. My cup overflowed with coffee and spilled on the counter.

owe to somebody to do something !
owe to	to be the reason for something	She OWES her success TO hard work and determination.

own up	to admit or confess something	The boy owned up. He said he kicked the ball through the window.
own up	to confess	Nobody OWNED UP to breaking the window.
own up	to take the blame for	He showed lots of character when he owned up to what he did.


pace around	to walk around nervously or anxiously	Stop pacing around and sit down. There is no need to pace about.

pace back and forth	to walk over and over the same short route nervously or anxiously	The leopard paced back and forth in its cage. I paced up and down, worrying about a variety of things.

pack away	to put something where it belongs	I PACKED AWAY the suitcases in the loft after we had emptied them.
pack something away	to pack something up and put it away	Pack this mirror away where it will be safe. Please pack away this mirror carefully.

pack down	[for something] to settle down in a container	The cereal has packed down in the box so that it seems that the box is only half full. Everything was packed down carefully inside.
pack something down	to make something more compact; to press something in a container down so it takes less space	The traffic packed down the snow. Pack the grass down in the basket so the basket will hold more.

pack in	to break down, stop working	The photocopier has PACKED IN again.
pack in	to end a relationship	She PACKED her boyfriend IN.
pack in	to fill a venue	They really PACK them IN at the club- it was so crowded it was impossible to move.
pack in	to stop doing something	I'm trying to PACK IN smoking.
pack it in	to stop doing something (used as an imperative)	The kids were making a fuss, so I told them to PACK IT IN.
pack it in	to go to bed	Good night. It's time for me to pack it in. We drove to a hotel and packed it in.
pack it in	to quit trying to do something; to give up trying something and quit	I was so distressed that I almost packed it in. I've had enough! I'm going to pack it in.
pack it in	to stop doing an activity or job	After another 11-hour day of campaigning, Kerns is ready to pack it in. Most professional athletes want to pack it in before they lose their ability to play well.
pack something in something	to surround or enclose something in something	They packed his wounded hand in Ice, then took him to the hospital. Pack the vase in shredded paper before you close the box.

pack of !

pack off	to send someone away	His boss PACKED him OFF to a regional office.
pack somebody off	to send someone away	We packed the kids off to their grandparents for the weekend.
pack somebody off (to something/somebody)	to send someone away to someone or some place	Laura just packed all the kids off to summer camp. She packed off the kids to their camp. After a lot of planning and a few tears, she packed them all off.
pack something off (to something/somebody)	to send something to someone or something	I will pack the books off to you immediately. She packed off the books to my home address. Harry found the books I wanted and packed them off.

pack out	to fill a venue	The stadium was PACKED OUT.

pack something up (in something)	to prepare something to be transported by placing it into a container	Gerry will pack the dishes up in a strong box, using lots of crumpled paper. Please pack up the dishes carefully.

pack something/somebody into something	to press or push someone or something into something; to manage to get a lot of things or people into a place	The boys packed a lot of kids into a telephone booth as a gag. They packed in a lot of kids.

pack something/somebody together	to press or squeeze people or things together	The ushers packed the people together as much as they dared. They packed together all the people standing in the room. They packed the cups together too tightly and some broke.

pack up	to break down, stop working	My printer PACKED UP last night- I'll have to get a new one.
pack up	to collect things and put them where you keep them	At the end of the presentation, I PACKED UP my laptop.
pack up	to finish work	We had nothing left to do, so we PACKED UP early.
pack up	to stop doing something	You should PACK UP smoking.
pack up somebody	to prepare someone to leave by gathering all their possessions	When the teachers heard about a flood warning, they packed up the children and sent them home.

pad down	to sleep somewhere for the night	I'm too tired to come home; can I PAD DOWN here tonight?
pad down (some place)	to make one's bed somewhere, usually a casual or temporary bed	Do you mind if I pad down at your place for the night? Can I pad down tonight?

pad out	to make a text longer by including extra content, often content that isn't particularly relevant	I couldn't think of much to write, so I PADDED the essay OUT with a few lengthy quotes.
pad out	to go to bed or to sleep	Man, if I don't pad out by midnight, I'm a zombie. Why don't you people go home so I can pad out?
pad something out	to make something appear to be larger or longer by adding unnecessary material	lf we pad the costume out here, it will make the person who wears it look much plumper. Let's pad out this paragraph a little.

paint on something	to apply paint to the surface of something	He painted on the fence a while and then went inside to rest. Please don't paint on the area that is not sanded down.

paint over something	to cover something up with a layer of paint	Sam painted over the rusty part of the fence. The work crew was told to paint over the graffiti.

paint somebody/something with !

paint somebody/yourself into !

paint something in	to paint something extra onto a painted area	I know that there is supposed to be a big white spot here. We will have to paint it in. We will have to paint in the spot.

paint something onto something	to apply a design or picture to something, using paint	Joel painted the portrait onto a large sheet of plywood. He painted on some leaves and flowers too.

paint something out	to cover something up or obliterate something by applying a layer of paint	The worker painted the graffiti out. They had to paint out the graffiti.

pair off	to begin a romantic relationship	They PAIRED OFF shortly after starting university.
pair off	to form pairs	The class PAIRED OFF to practise the exam interviews.
pair off	to introduce people, hoping they will start a relationship	I tried to PAIR him OFF with my sister.
pair off	[for two people or other creatures] to form a couple or pair	All of them paired off and worked as teams to solve the puzzle. Everyone should pair off and discuss the issue for a while.
pair off with	to form a pair with someone	I PAIRED OFF WITH Trish for the test.

pair up	to form a pair	We PAIRED UP for the last activity.

pal around (with somebody)	to associate with someone as a good friend	I like to pal around with my friends on the weekends. They like to pal around. They often palled around with each other.
pal around (with somebody)	to join with someone as a friend	I palled up with Henry and we had a fine time together. We palled up and had a fine time together. They palled up with each other.
pal around (with somebody)	to spend time doing things you enjoy with someone you like	Jackie pals around with other students who also listen to rap music.

pale at something	to become weak, frightened, or pale from fear of something or the thought of something	Bob paled at the thought of having to drive all the way back to get the forgotten suitcase. We paled at the notion that we would always be poor.

pale beside something/somebody	to appear to be weak or unimportant when compared to someone or something	He is competent, but he pales beside Fran. My meager effort pales beside your masterpiece.

pale in comparison (with something)	to seem lacking in importance or quality than something else	I thought I had a frightening accident, but mine pales in comparison with yours.

palm off	to get someone to accept something that isn't true	He tried to PALM me OFF with a pathetic excuse.
palm off	to pretend something is better than it is in order to sell it	He tried to PALM his computer OFF as the latest model.
palm off something	to give someone or something to someone as a gift that appears to be someone or something desirable (As if the gift had been concealed in one's palm until it was gotten rid of)	Are you trying to palm that annoying client off on me as a hot prospect? Don't palm off that pest on me. Please don't pass that problem off on me as a challenge. Don't pass it off on me! Don't pawn it off on me as something of value.
palm off something	to trick or persuade someone to take something	They palmed off cheap wine at high prices by putting it in fancy bottles. She produced fake stamps and palmed them off as genuine.

pan across to something/somebody	to turn or rotate a film or television camera so that the picture follows movement or moves to and settles on someone or something	The camera panned across to Mary, who was sitting, looking out the window. The camera operator panned across to the window on the opposite side of the room.

pan for something	to search for a precious metal, usually gold, by using a pan to locate the bits of metal in sand and gravel in a stream bed	When I was in Alaska, I panned for gold in a little stream set aside for tourists. The old prospector spent many hours panning for gold.

pan out	and zoom out to move back to a wider angle picture using a zoom lens	The camera zoomed out. Pan out at this point in the script and give a wider view of the scene.
pan out	the way a situation develops	I don't know how things will PAN OUT now the company's been taken over.
pan out	to happen or be successful	He was very creative, although not all his ideas have panned out.
pan out	to happen; to occur	Our trip to Vietnam didn't pan out.

pan over something/somebody	to turn or rotate a film or television camera so that the picture moves across a view of someone or something	The camera panned over the skyline, picking up interesting cloud formations. It panned over Roger as if he weren't there - ;which is exactly the effect the director wanted.

pander to somebody	to cater toward undesirable tastes or people with undesirable tastes	All your writing seems to pander to persons with poor taste. You are pandering to the moral dregs of society.
pander to somebody	to give someone what they want, although it may not be good or right for them TV stations pander to viewers who don't seem to get enough of sex and violence.
pander to something	to accept or support something bad in order to get an advantage	He is the worst sort of politician, who panders to fear to win votes.

panic somebody by something	to make someone lose control by doing something	She panicked Denise by describing the event too vividly. She panicked her horse by jerking the reins too tightly.

paper over	try to conceal a problem without really fixing it	The government tried to PAPER OVER the problems in the proposal, but the press were very critical.
paper over something	to conceal something; to cover something up	Don't try to paper over the mess you have made. George tried to paper over all his mistakes.
paper over something	to cover up some sort of blemish on a wall with wallpaper	We papered over a lot of little cracks. Sam papered over all the flaws in the plaster wall.
paper over something	to put a layer of wallpaper on a wall	We papered over the wall, giving the room a bright, new look. We papered over the old plaster on the wall.
paper over something	to solve a problem temporarily	They papered over their disagreements in order to end the meeting on a positive note. She has a solid record of bridging differences between groups, not just papering them over.

par for !

parade (somebody or an animal) out	to bring or march someone or an animal out in public	He parades his children out every Sunday as they go to church. He paraded out all his children.

parade by (somebody)	to march past someone in a parade or as if in a parade	The soldiers paraded by the commander in chief. Looking quite sharp, they paraded by.

parade something/somebody in front of something/somebody	to exhibit someone or something in front of someone or something, as if in a parade	One by one, the teacher paraded the honor students in front of the parents. The sheriff paraded the suspects in front of the camera. The sheriff paraded the suspects in front of the victim.

parcel out something	if something is part and parcel of an experience, it is a necessary part of that experience which cannot be avoided	Being recognised in the street is all part and parcel of being famous.
parcel out something	to give parts of something to different people	The bookkeeper spent yesterday parceling out the profits from the deal. The settlement is very small and I'm glad I'm not the one who has to parcel it out.
parcel something/somebody out	to divide up and send or give away people or things	Carla parceled all the uniforms out so everyone would have one to wear for the parade. We will parcel out the children for the summer.

pardon somebody for something	to excuse and release a convicted criminal	The governor pardoned Max for his crime. The governor did not pardon any drug dealers for their crimes.
pardon somebody for something	to excuse someone for doing something	Will you please pardon me for what I did? I can't pardon her for that.

pare back	if you pare something back, you reduce the size or numbers	They have had to PARE BACK the services they offer as their funding was reduced.

pare down	to reduce, decrease	They have PARED DOWN the number of employees as they haven't been doing well.
pare something down (to something)	to cut someone down to something or a smaller size	I will have to pare the budget down to the minimum. I hope we can pare down the budget. After much arguing, we pared it down.

pare something off (of) something	to cut something off something;(Of is usually retained before pronouns;) See if you can pare a bit of this extra wood off the edge of the base of this pillar	Pare off some of the wood.

parlay something into something	to exploit an asset in such a way as to increase its value to some higher amount	She is trying to parlay her temporary job into a full-time position. Alice parlayed her inheritance into a small fortune by investing in the stock market.

parley with somebody	to talk with someone	I need to parley with my brother before making a financial commitment. We need to parley with each other sometime soon.

partake in something	to participate in something	Valerie does not care to partake in those childish games. I would like to partake in the fun.

partake of something	to have a portion of something, such as food or drink	Would you care to partake of this apple pie with me? I would like to partake of that fine dinner I see set out on the table.
partake of something	to take part in or experience something	Sarah had always wanted to partake of the good life. Roger had no intention of partaking of the events offered at the fair.

participate (in something) (with something/somebody)	to take part in something with someone or a group	I will not participate in this activity with you. They don't participate with our team in this contest.

participate in (something)	All the studentsВ participated inВ the discussion.

partition (something into something)	to divide or separate something into something [smaller]	I will partition this room into two separate spaces. Do you think you can partition this box into four compartments so we can store files by quarter?

partition something off	to divide off a section of something	They planned to partition the basement off. We will partition off a larger area.

party to something	a participant in something; someone who is involved in something	I refuse to be a party to your dishonest plan!

pass (something) up	to let (something) go by	I passed up a great opportunity to make a lot of money.
pass something up	to decline (usually something good)	I passed up the job because I am afraid of change.
pass up	to decline a chance	She PASSED UP the opportunity to go to university because she'd been offered a job.

pass around	to give out to everybody there	The teacher PASSED the handout AROUND.

pass as	to be believed to be something	Although not qualified, he managed to PASS AS a doctor for years.

pass away (on)	to die	Sadly, Georgia's uncle PASSED AWAY yesterday after a short illness. Her uncle passed away last summer. His grandfather passed away last month. The old lady passed away peacefully. His uncle passed away last night after a long illness.

pass by	to go past without stopping	I was just PASSING BY when I saw the accident.
pass by	to miss an opportunity	The chance for promotion PASSED me BY.
pass by	to visit briefly	I was PASSING BY her house the other day when I heard about it.

pass for	to be accepted as something, usually when not	You'd be surprised at what PASSES FOR good cooking in many restaurants.
pass for (something/somebody)	to be able to be accepted as (something/someone)	He's 37, but he can pass for 30. He can pass for being Italian.

pass in review	[for marchers] to move past an important person for a visual examination	All the soldiers passed in review on the Fourth of July. As they passed in review, each of them saluted the officers on the reviewing stand.

pass off	to convince something that something is real	I managed to PASS OFF the fake money in the market.
pass off	to happen in a certain way	The demonstration PASSED OFF peacefully.

pass on	to decline an invitation or opportunity	I think I'll PASS ON dinner tonight- I'm not hungry.
pass on	to die	Her husband PASSED ON last year.
pass on	to give a message to someone	I'll PASS the message ON when she gets here.
pass on	to not take or accept	I'll buy the blouse, but I'll pass on the pants.
pass on	to tell or transmit	He passed the news on to the president.
pass sentence on somebody	[for a judge] to read out the sentence of punishment for a convicted criminal	It is my job as judge to pass sentence on you. The judge was about to pass sentence on Max - ;ten years in prison.
pass sentence on somebody	[for someone] to render a judgment on another person in the manner of a judge	You have no right to pass judgment on me! I wish you wouldn't pass judgment on everyone around you.

pass out	to faint, lose consciousness	He got so drunk that he PASSED OUT. Don't drink until you pass out. Please can you pass these handouts out to everyone? She passed out when she heard the bad news. The woman passed out from the heat. It was so hot in the church that an elderly lady passed out.
pass out	to distribute	The demonstrators were passing out flyers.
pass out something; pass something out
pass something out	to give the same thing to many people	The professor passed the textbooks out before class.

pass over	to ignore someone and give a job, reward, etc., to someone more junior	They PASSED him OVER and made his assistant the new director.

pass through	to visit a place without stopping or only stopping briefly	I didn't see much as I was only PASSING THROUGH the town.

pass to	to give ownership or responsibility to someone	The shares PASSED TO his daughter when he died.

paste something down	to secure something down [onto something] with paste or glue	The poster will look better if you will paste the loose edges down. Please paste down the edges.

paste something on somebody	to affix something to someone with paste or glue	We had to paste a mustache on her for the last scene of the play. They pasted beards on themselves too.
paste something on somebody	to charge someone with a crime	You can't paste that charge on me! Max did it! The cops pasted a robbery charge on Lefty "Fingers" Moran.
paste something on somebody	to land a blow on someone (See also paste someone one)	If you do that again, I'll paste one on you. Max pasted a nasty blow on Lefty's chin.

paste something up	to assemble a complicated page of material by pasting the parts together	There is no way a typesetter can get this page just the way you want it. You'll have to paste it up yourself. Paste up this page again and let me see it.
paste something up	to repair something with paste	See if you can paste this book up so it will hold together. Paste up the book and hope it holds together for a while.

pat something down	to tap something down with the open hand	I heaped some soil over the seeds and patted it down. I patted down the soil.

pat something/somebody on something	to tap someone or something on a particular place with the open hand	She patted the child on the bottom. I patted the car on its hood to show how proud I was of it.

patch up !
patch somebody up	to give medical care to someone	That cut looks bad, but the doc over there can patch you up. The doc patched up my friend.
patch something up	to "repair" the damage done by an argument or disagreement	Mr. and Mrs. Smith are trying to patch things up. We patched up our argument, then kissed and made up.
patch something up	to repair something in a hurry; to make something temporarily serviceable again	Can you patch this up so I can use it again? I'll patch up the hose for you.
patch up	to fix or make things better	I tried to PATCH things UP after the argument, but they wouldn't speak to me.
patch up something	to fix a relationship	Charles said they wanted to patch up any outstanding differences as soon as possible. Early in our marriage, we sometimes argued about money, but we always patched things up.
patch up something	to not be as good as someone or something else	It's a reasonably entertaining film but it's not a patch on 'Bladerunner'.
patch up something	to put an end to a quarrel; to reconcile quarreling parties	Tom and Fred were able to patch their quarrel up. I hope we can patch up this quarrel.

patch something together (with something)	to use something to repair something hastily or temporarily	I think I can patch the exhaust pipe together with some wire. See if you can patch this engine together well enough to run for a few more hours.

patient with somebody

pattern something after something	to use something as an example or model when making something	I patterned my house after one I saw in England. She wanted to pattern her coat after her mother's.

pattern something on something	to use something as a model for something else	Try to pattern your sales speech on Jane's. She's got it just right. We patterned our approach on Bob's.

pave the way (for something/somebody) (with something)	to prepare the way with something for someone to come or something to happen (Alludes to paving a road)	I will pave the way for her with an introduction. I am sure I can pave the way for your success. I will pave the way with an introduction.
pave the way for somebody/something	something that you say which means people often intend to do good things but much of the time, they do not make the effort to do those things 'I kept meaning to visit her but	I didn't get round to it.' 'The road to hell is paved with good intentions.'
pave the way for somebody/something	to make it possible or easier for someone or something to follow	The procedure helped pave the way for successful open heart surgery using the heart-lung machine.
pave the way for something	People often mean well but do bad things (Can be a strong rebuke, implying that the person you are addressing did something bad and his or her good intentions do not matter)	Jane: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to hurt your feelings; I only wanted to help you. Jane: Oh, yeah? The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
pave the way for something	to be a preparation which will make it possible for something to happen in the future	Scientists hope that data from this expedition will pave the way for a more detailed exploration of Mars.

pay (price) for (something)

pay back	to reimburse	You pay me back before the end of the week.
pay back	to repay money borrowed	I PAID BACK the twenty pounds I'd borrowed.
pay back	to take revenge on	I'm going to PAY him BACK for that insult.
pay back	to repay; To get revenge	Why is she being so mean to him? She is paying him back for all the years he was mean to her.

pay to somebody !
pay heed to somebody	to listen to and accommodate someone	You had better pay heed to your father! They are not paying heed to what I told them.

pay for	to purchase	I PAID twenty pounds FOR the book. He paid for our lunch. We paid $120 for our textbooks.
pay for something	to be punished for doing something bad	That bully will pay for being mean to my little brother.

pay in advance	to pay (for something) before it is received or delivered	I want to make a special order. Will I have to pay in advance? Yes, please pay in advance.

pay into	to deposit money	I PAID the cash INTO my account.

pay off	to completely repay a debt	The mortgage will be PAID OFF in twenty-five years.
pay off	to produce a profitable or successful result	Their patience PAID OFF when he finally showed up and signed the contract.
pay off	to bribe	The police were obviously paid off to stay away.
pay off	to complete payment	I won't be able to pay off my student loan for another 10 years.

pay somebody (for something) (with something)	to make payment with something to someone for something or for doing something	I will pay you for the loan you made me with the money I get from selling my car. I will pay you with a check.
pay somebody back	to return owed money	Thanks for buying my ticket. I'll pay you back on Friday.

peal out	[for bells or voices] to sound forth musically	The bells pealed out to announce that the wedding had taken place. All six of the bells seemed to peal out at once.

peck at	to eat very small amounts	The food wasn't very nice, so I PECKED AT it to look polite.
peck at something	[for a bird] to poke someone or something with its beak	The bird pecked at the ground, snatching up the ants. I tried to hold on to the bird but it pecked at me hard.
peck at something	[for someone] to eat just a little bit of something, being as picky as a bird	Are you well, Betty? You are just pecking at your food. Please don't peck at your food. You should eat everything.

peck something up	[for a bird] to eat something up by pecking at it	The chickens pecked all the grain up. The birds pecked up the grain.

peek at something/somebody	to sneak a glimpse at someone or something	Now, don't peek at me while I am changing my shirt. I peeked at the dessert you made. It looks delicious.

peek in(to something)	to steal a quick glimpse into something	Sam peeked into the oven to see what was cooking. Laura opened the oven door and peeked in.

peek out	to look outward from behind someone or something	A shy kitten peeked out from behind the sofa. I looked toward the back of the sofa just as a little cat face peeked out.
peek out	to look outward from beneath someone or something	A small furry face peeked out from underneath the sofa. At the base of the sofa, a cat peeked out.
peek out	to show just a little bit with the rest concealed behind someone or something	A bit of yellow peeked out from behind the tree, so we knew Frank was hiding there. We saw a flash of Frank's yellow shirt peek out.
peek out	to show just a little bit with the rest concealed under someone or something	Her petticoat peeked out from underneath her skirt. Her skirt was a tad too short and a little bit of her slip peeked out.
peek out of something	to be inside of something and take a look out	A pair of glimmering eyes peeked out of the darkened room at the two people standing at the door. I peeked out of my room at the eerie shadows in the hallway. Jerry peeked out of the bathroom to see if anyone was looking.
peek out of something	[for a little bit of something] to be revealed with the rest concealed within	A bit of white skin peeked out beneath his pants cuff.

peek over something	to examine something with a quick glance	I really can't say how good the story was. I only peeked over it. I peeked over your manuscript, and it looks good.
peek over something	to raise up and look over some barrier	I peeked over the wall and saw the lovely garden. Don't peek over the sofa and let Roger see you. It will ruin the surprise.

peek through	to peer or glimpse through something	I'll just peek through your picture album. I'll study it more carefully later. I only have time to peek through. I would like to spend more time with it later.
peek through	[for something] to become slightly visible through something	Mary, the lace of your slip is peeking throughyour blouse! Some lace is peeking through.

peek under something	to sneak a little glance beneath something	I peeked under the table, hoping to see the dog waiting therefor the part of my dinner I wasn't going to eat. Peek under the chair and see if the cat is there.

peel off	to move away quickly	The first of three attack jets suddenly peeled off to the right.
peel off (of) (something)	[for a surface layer] to come loose and fall away from something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The paint is beginning to peel off the garage. The paint is peeling off.
peel something off (of) (something)	to remove the outside surface layer from something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	She carefully peeled the skin off the apple. She peeled off the apple's skin.

peel something away (from something)	to peel something from the surface of something	Peel the label away from the envelope and place it on the order form. Peel away the label carefully.

peel something back (from something)	to lift something away from the surface of something	He peeled the sheets back from the bed and got in. He peeled back the sheets and got into the bed.

peep at something/somebody	to get a glimpse of someone or something, as if looking through a hole	I peeped at Tom through the Venetian blinds. Look in the microscope and peep at this bacterium.

peep in(to something)	to get a quick look into something, as through a hole in the wall or something similar	I peeped into the oven to see what was cooking for dinner. She opened the oven door and peeped in.

peep out (of something) (at something/somebody)	to sneak a glimpse of someone or something out of something, as through a hole	A little mouse peeped out of its hole at the bright lights in the room. Johnny, hiding in the closet, peeped out at the guests through the partly opened door.

peep over something	to raise up and sneak a glance over some barrier; to look over the top of something	The child peeped over the wall to get a look at the yard next door. Grandfather peeped over his glasses to look at the television set for a moment.

peep through something	to take a quick glance through something, such as a hole, telescope, etc.	Sam peeped through the keyhole and saw that the room was dark. Peep through the telescope and have a look at the moon!

peer about	to stare around; to look at everything about	She came into the room and peered about. Mary peered about, looking for a place to sit.

peer at something/somebody	to look at someone or something closely; to stare at and examine someone or something	The child peered at me for a while in a strange way. The owl peered at the snake for a moment before grabbing it.

peer in(to something)	to stare into something; to look deep into something	I peered into the room, hoping to get a glimpse of the lovely furnishings. I only had time to peer in and then I walked on by.

peer out at something/somebody	to stare out at someone or something	A little puppy peered out at them from the cage. When I looked under the box, Timmy peered out at me with a big smile.

peer over something	to stare out or look over something, such as one's glasses	The old man peered over his glasses and looked off into the distance. She peered over the wall to see what she could see.

peer through something	to stare through a partial barrier, such as a window, drapes, the haze, the fog, etc.	George peered through the drapes and spied on the party next door. Sally peered through the haze as best she could, trying to see if the way was clear.
peer through something	to view or look through glasses, spectacles, binoculars, etc.	From the way she peered through her glasses at me, I knew I was in trouble. Claire stood on the balcony, peering through her binoculars.

peer under something	to look underneath something	She peered under the bed, hoping to find her slippers. When she peered under the bed, she found nothing but lint.

peg away	to keep working at something	I PEGGED AWAY for weeks before my exams.

peg down	to fasten something to the ground	We PEGGED the tent DOWN to stop the wind blowing it about.
peg something down	to fasten something to the ground with pegs	After he had finished pegging the tent down, he built a fire. He pegged down the tent before building a fire.

peg out	to die	He PEGGED OUT last night from a heart attack. I was so scared, I thought I would peg out for sure. Uncle Herman almost pegged out last week.
peg out	to put washing outside to dry	I PEGGED the washing OUT after it stopped raining.

peg somebody as something	to think of someone in a certain way	Susan pegged the new employee as a lazy worker. I had you pegged as an angry rebel before I got to know you.

pelt something/somebody with something	to hit or strike someone or something with something	The citizens pelted Max with rocks. The boys pelted the mad dog with a hail of stones.

pen (somebody or an animal) in (some place)	to confine someone or an animal in a pen	We penned all the kids in out in the backyard while we got the party things ready in the house. We had to pen in the kids to keep them away from the traffic. Alice penned her dog in.

pen (somebody or an animal) up	to confine someone to a confined space or an animal to a pen	He said he didn't want them to pen him up in an office all day. They penned up the dog during the day.

pencil in	to make a provisional appointment	I'll PENCIL Thursday night IN, but if anything comes up, give me a ring.
pencil somebody/something in	to have a temporary plan to do something with someone	The team had penciled in Morton as a key player this season. I penciled you in for lunch next Thursday.
pencil somebody/something in	to increase a man's sexual ability	You should eat a few oysters - that'll put some lead in your pencil (British humorous)

penetrate into something/somebody	to pierce into someone or something; to stick deep into someone or something	The lance penetrated into the knight, right through his armor. The bullet penetrated into the wall.

penetrate something with something	to pierce something with something	I could not even penetrate the steel door with a cold chisel. It was easy to penetrate the lid with a can opener.

penetrate through something	to pierce all the way through something (Some people will view the through as redundant)	The bullet could not penetrate through the metal plating. It did not have enough force to penetrate through the steel.

pension somebody off	to retire someone with a pension	The company tried to pension me off before I was ready to retire. They pensioned off the long-time workers.

people something with somebody	to provide population for something or some place, using someone or some kind of people	The government decided to people the frontier with a variety of races. The island had been peopled with marooned sailors.

pep somebody/something up	a speech that you give to people in order to encourage them to work harder or win a competition I thought I'd give the lads a pep talk before the match.
pep somebody/something up	to make someone or something more active or exciting	With her energy and enthusiasm, she may be able to pep up the company's sales. She was always busy trying either to pep someone up or calm someone down.
pep somebody/something up	to make someone or something more vigorous	Nancy needs to take some vitamins to pep her up. The coffee break pepped up the tired workers. Better food might pep your cat up.

pepper something/somebody with something	to shower someone or something with something, such as stones, bullets, etc.	The angry crowd peppered the police with stones. The sheriff's posse peppered the bandit's hideout with bullets.

perceive something/somebody as something	to think of someone or something as something or as displaying certain characteristics	I perceive Randy as sort of hotheaded. We all perceive this problem as solvable.

perch something/somebody on something	to place, seat, or stand someone or something in a place	She perched the little girl on the edge of the tub. Walter perched his hat on the top shelf.

percolate through something	[for a liquid] to seep down through something	The water percolated through the coffee grounds too slowly for Fred, who was just dying for a hot cup of the stuff. The water percolated through the subsoil and appeared again at the bottom of the hill.

perish from something	to die from a particular cause, such as a disease	Nearly all the fish perished from the cold. I was afraid that I would perish from hunger.

perish in something	to die because of involvement in something	Four people perished in the flames. Our cat perished in an accident.

perish with something	to feel bad enough to die because of something, such as heat, hunger, etc. (Often an exaggeration)	I was just perishing with hunger when we arrived at the restaurant. Mary felt as if she would perish with the intense heat of the stuffy little room.

perk somebody up	to make someone more cheery or refreshed	A nice cup of coffee would really perk me up. A cup of coffee will perk up the sleepiest person.
perk something up	to refresh or brighten something; to make something more lively	A bit of bright yellow here and there will perk this room up a lot. We need something to perk up the second act of the play.
perk up	to feel better or happier; make someone feel better or happier	She was ill in bed with flu, but she PERKED UP a bit when some friends dropped by.
perk up (somebody)	to become invigorated; to become more active	After a bit of water, the plants perked up nicely. About noon, Andy perked up and looked wide-awake.
perk up (somebody)	to make someone more active and interested	It was a clear summer day, and Nancy looked like she was beginning to perk up. His stay with Aunt Podie soon perked him up.
perk up something	to make something more interesting or active	Chopped prunes can really perk up a fruit salad. It's a pretty dull movie, though the supporting actors perk things up a little.

permeate something with something	to saturate something with something	The comedian permeated his act with smutty jokes. The evening air was permeated with the smell of jasmine.

permeate through something	to seep in and saturate something	The coffee spilled on the desk and permeated through all the papers and stuff. The strong odor permeated through the walls and nearly suffocated us.

permit somebody into something	to allow someone to enter something or some place	They would not permit me in the dining room since I had no tie. They would not permit in that bunch of rowdy brats or any other of her friends.

permit somebody out (of something)	to allow someone to go out of something or some place	His mother won't permit him out of his room all weekend. I didn't do anything, but she won't permit me out!

permit somebody through (something)	to allow someone to pass through something	Would you permit me through the door? I have to get into this building. Janet said she was in a hurry, but they wouldn't permit her through.

permit somebody up (something)	to allow someone to come up something	She would not permit me up the ladder. I wanted to climb the ladder to be with Walter, but he wouldn't permit me up.
permit somebody up to something	to allow someone to come up to something or some place	The teacher would not permit the smallest children up to the edge. They would not permit us up to the gate before our turn came.

persecute somebody for something	to harass or repress someone for something	They were persecuting the native people for being underdeveloped. They were persecuted for being simple and unsuspecting.

persevere at something	to keep trying to do something	I will persevere at my studies and I'm sure I will succeed. Todd persevered at his job and got promoted in no time.

persevere in something	to persist in [doing] something	I will persevere in my efforts to win election. Kelly persevered in her studies and graduated with honors.

persevere with something	to continue to try to accomplish something	Do you really think it is wise to persevere with your plan? Sally persevered with her scheme to earn a million dollars.

persist in
persist in doing something	to continue doing something	John persists in thinking that he's always right. Tom persists in demanding that I agree to his terms.

persist with something	to continue the state of something; to extend an action or state	Please do not persist with your demands that I agree to your terms. If you persist with this intrusion, I'm going to call the police.

persuade somebody of something	to convince someone of something	Laura was unable to persuade me of the truth of her statement. We were all persuaded of the need for higher taxes.

persuade somebody to do something	to convince someone to do something	Are you sure I can't persuade you to have another piece of cake? Richard was easily persuaded to have another piece of his favorite cake.

pertain to something	to have a connection with something	His organization wants to provide input to the county on issues pertaining to wildlife.
pertain to something	to relate to someone or something; to have something to do with someone or something	I don't think that anything discussed in this meeting pertained to me. It really doesn't pertain to the matter at hand.

pester somebody about something/somebody	to bother someone about someone or something	Please don't pester me about Frank. Stop pestering me about money.

pester somebody into something	to annoy someone into doing something	We are trying to pester her into accepting the position. I don't want to be pestered into losing my temper!

pester somebody out of something	to annoy one out of one's mind, senses, good manners, etc.	I was pestered out of my mind by a series of silly questions.
pester somebody out of something	to annoy someone out of doing something	Dave pestered Mary out of going away for the weekend. He pestered her out of leaving without him.

pester somebody with something	to annoy someone with something	Don't pester me with your constant questions! I was pestered with phone call after phone call.

peter out	to lose impetus and stop	Everyone was keen at first, but the enthusiasm PETERED OUT when they saw how long it would take.
peter out	to be reduced gradually so that nothing is left	The road petered out completely, and there was no choice but to walk the rest of the way. The attacks petered out during the rainy season.
peter out	to borrow money from someone in order to give to someone else the money that you already owe them	Then I'd take out another loan to pay my debts, robbing Peter to pay Paul.
peter out	to take or borrow from one in order to give or pay something owed to another	Why borrow money to pay your bills? That's just robbing Peter to pay Paul. There's no point in robbing Peter to pay Paul. You will still be in debt.
peter out	[for something] to die or dwindle away; [for something] to become exhausted gradually	When the fire petered out, I went to bed. My money finally petered out, and I had to come home.

petition something/somebody for something	to make a formal request of someone or a group for something	They petitioned us for an end to the stringent dress code. We had to petition the upper administration for a revision in the policy.

phase in	to introduce gradually	They are PHASING IN the reforms over the next two years.
phase in something	to introduce something gradually in stages	The plan would phase in a pay raise for many state-government workers. They added too many stores at once instead of phasing them in over time.
phase in something	to work someone or something out of use or service or out of a group gradually	We are going to have to phase you out of the job of treasurer. They phased out the unneeded workers.

phase out	to remove gradually	They have introduced a compact edition of the newspaper and are PHASING OUT the broadsheet edition over the next few months.
phase out something	to gradually stop providing or using something	The city decided to phase out half-day kindergarten for 4-year-olds in the public schools.

phase something/somebody into something	to work someone or something into use or service gradually	They decided to phase Ruth into the job little by little. They phased in Ruth over a long period of time.

phone in (to something/somebody)	to call in by telephone to a central person or central point	I will phone in to my secretary and report the change in schedule. I have to phone in and report the changes.
phone something in (to something/somebody)	to transmit information to a central person or central point by telephone	I will phone this order in to the plant right away. I will phone in the order to my secretary right now. Don't worry. I'll phone it in.

phone somebody up	to call someone on the telephone	I don't know what he will do. I will phone him up and ask him. Phone up your brother and ask his advice.

pick at	to criticize	There were a few problems that could be PICKED AT, but it was generally good.
pick at	o eat unwillingly	I wasn't very hungry so I just PICKED AT my food.

pick off	to target individuals to change a group	There were many rebels against the policy, but the government PICKED OFF the leaders.

pick on	to bother, annoy, criticize or make fun of someone	My friends always PICK ON me because I don't sing well.
pick on	to harass; To intentionally make someone upset	You shouldn't pick on him just because he's different.

pick (something) out	to choose	She PICKED OUT the ones she wanted to take and left the rest. I picked out three sweaters for you to try on.
pick out	to identify from a picture	The victim couldn't PICK OUT her attacker from the photos the police showed her.
pick out something; pick something out

pick through	to search something that is disordered for something	The police have been PICKING THROUGH the wreckage for clues.

pick up	to collect	While you're in town, can you PICK UP my trousers from the Dry Cleaner?
pick up	to collect somebody	I'll pick you up at the station. This differs from the 'collect a thing' meaning - as that means 'collect and bring back' whereas this means either (i) 'collect and drop off on your way' or (ii) 'collect and bring to the same destination'. Can you PICK me UP and take me to The George when you go to the party? Can you PICK UP some friends of mine on your way to the party? They're going too.
pick up	to improve	Sales PICKED UP a bit during the Christmas period.
pick up	to learn quickly	She PICKED UP Spanish in six months.
pick up	to receive (a broadcast)	When we rent a holiday cottage in Cornwall, we can't PICK UP Channel 5.
pick up	to relax	I will pick her up from school. Help me pick up this guy from the sidewalk, will you? The storm picked up about midnight. I picked up a little French while I was in Quebec.
pick up	to come and get someone (usually in a car)	I have to pick the kids up at school.
pick up	to meet someone and initiate a (sexual) relationship	Some sleazy guy was trying to pick me up last night.
pick up	to notice	She picked up on his bad mood.
pick up after	to tidy a mess someone else has made	I always have to PICK UP AFTER him because he leaves things all over the office.
pick up on	to comment on something said earlier in a conversation	I'd like to PICK UP ON the point that Jill made.
pick up on	to correct someone when they say something wrong	My teacher PICKS UP ON any mistake I make and corrects me.
pick up on	to notice something that most people don't	He's very quick to PICK UP ON new trends.
pick up on	to react to something	The government has PICKED UP ON the reports in the media.
pick up somebody; pick somebody up
pick yourself up	to recover from a fall or problem	It took him a long time to PICK HIMSELF UP after his wife left him.

picture of !

picture somebody as something/somebody	to imagine someone as someone or a type of person; to form a mental picture of someone as someone or a type of person	Just picture me as Santa Claus! I can't picture you as a doctor.

picture somebody in something	to form a mental picture of someone inside something or some place	I can just picture you in that car! Can you picture yourself in jail?
picture somebody in something	to form a mental picture of someone wearing something	I can just picture Tony in that baseball uniform. Can you picture yourself in a dress like this?

piddle around	to waste time doing little or nothing	Stop piddling around and get busy. I'm not piddling around. I am experimenting.
piddle something away	to waste away money or a period of time	Please don't piddle all your money away. Jane piddled away most of the day.

pie in !

piece (of the action)	a share in the activity or the profits (Especially of a business scheme or gambling activity)	If you get in on that real estate deal, I want a piece, too. Deal Tom in. He wants a piece of the action.
piece of !

pierce through something	to poke through something; to penetrate something	He pierced through the meat with a fork and then put it in a spicy marinade. Mary pierced the yarn through with the knitting needles.

pig off	used to tell someone to get lost or leave you alone	He told them to PIG OFF and leave him in peace.

pig out	to eat a lot	The food was great, so I really PIGGED OUT. Our kids dream of staying up late and pigging out on junk food.
pig out (on something)	to eat too much of something; to make a pig of oneself	I intend to really pig out on pizza. I love to pig out on ice cream.

pile in(to something)	to climb in or get in roughly	Okay, kids, pile in! The children piled into the car and slammed the door.

pile off (something)	to get down off something; to clamber down off something	All the kids piled off the wagon and ran into the barn. She stopped the wagon, and they piled off.

pile on(to) (something/somebody)	to make a heap of people on someone or something	The football players piled onto the poor guy holding the ball. They ran up to the ball carrier and piled on.
pile something/somebody on(to) something/somebody	to heap people or things onto someone or something	The wrestler piled the referee onto his unconscious opponent. We piled the kids on the heap of leaves we had raked up. Pile on the chili! What's a hot dog without chili?
pile the work on (somebody)	to give someone a lot of work to do	The boss really piled the work on me this week. The boss piled on the work this week.

pile out (of something)	[for many people] to get out of something roughly	Okay, kids, pile out! The car door burst open, and the children piled out.

pile somebody into something	to bunch people into something in a disorderly fashion	She piled the kids into the van and headed off for school. She piled in the kids and closed the doors. Pile them in and let's go. They piled themselves into the car and sped off.

pile something up	to crash or wreck something	Drive carefully if you don't want to pile the car up. The driver piled up the car against a tree.
pile something up	to make something into a heap	Carl piled all the leaves up and set them afire. Please pile up the leaves.
pile up	to accumulate	Work just keeps on PILING UP and I really can't manage to get it all done.
pile up something	to increase something	Many civilians were killed - the evidence continues to pile up. The company piled up hundreds of millions of dollars of losses over the last year. Usage notes: usually used in passive forms: Earnings began piling up from the sale of the new switches.
pile up something	to try to get sympathy from other people by making your problems seem worse than they really are (usually in continuous tenses)	He was really piling on the agony, saying he was heart-broken and hadn't got anything left to live for.

pilfer from something/somebody	to steal from someone or a group	The petty thief had pilfered from several merchants in town. Someone has pilfered from the petty-cash drawer.
pilfer something from something/somebody	to steal something from someone or something	Did you pilfer this money from your parents? Who pilfered some money from the cash box?

pillar of !

pilot something into something	to steer or guide something into something (Usually refers to steering a ship)	We need to signal for a pilot to pilot our ship into the harbor. Fred piloted in the freighter.

pilot something/somebody through (something)	to guide or steer someone or something through something, especially through a waterway	We hired someone to pilot us through the harbor entrance. The channel was treacherous, and we hired someone to pilot the ship through.

pin down	to discover exact details about something	The government can't PIN DOWN where the leak came from.
pin down	to get a fixed idea, opinion, etc., from someone	I've asked him to set a date, but he's a hard man to PIN DOWN and won't give a definite answer.
pin down somebody	to get specific information from someone	It is not easy to pin down a politician who won't even tell you if it's raining or snowing! We tried to pin him down on where the money would come from.
pin down somebody	to hold someone by force so that they cannot move	Burns usually pinned down and then handcuffed his victims. I was pinned down by a wall that had fallen. Usage notes: when the object is a pronoun, it always follows pin: Don't pin me down about my plans.
pin down somebody	to keep someone from being able to escape by shooting at them	For a time, the crew was pinned down by machine-gun fire.
pin down something	to discover the facts or exact details about something	The fire department is trying to pin down the cause of Wednesday's fire. So far we haven't pinned down a date.
pin somebody down (on something)	to demand and receive a firm answer from someone to some question (Alludes to shifting from answer to answer; commit to one answer or another)	I tried to pin him down on a time and place, but he was very evasive. Don't try to pin down the mayor on anything! I want to nail her down on a meeting time.

pin on	to attach the blame to someone	The police tried to PIN the crime ON him.
pin back !
pin somebody's ears back	to give someone a good scolding	Did you hear him? He really pinned Chuck's ears back. He pinned back Chuck's ears.
pin something back	to hold something back by pinning	I will pin the curtains back to let a little more light in. Jane pinned back the curtains.

pin something (on)to something	to attach or fix something to someone or something by pinning	The mayor pinned the medal onto the lapel of the brave young hero. She pinned a medal to his lapel.
pin something down	to attach or affix something with nails or pins	Pin the pattern down temporarily. Nail down this piece of flooring every 12 inches.
pin something down	to determine or fix something, such as a date, an agreement, an amount of money, a decision, etc.	It will be ready sometime next month. I can't pin the date down just yet, however. I can't pin down the exact date just now.

pin something on somebody	to blame someone for something	The accident can't be pinned on me, but I truly don't know how it happened.
pin something on somebody	to blame someone for something, especially something they did not do	The police tried to pin the murder on the dead woman's husband.
pin something on somebody	to blame something on someone; to frame someone for a crime; to make it appear that an innocent person has actually committed a crime (See also pin something on someone or something)	Don't try to pin that crime on me! I didn't do it. The gang member tried to pin the crime on a rival gang.
pin something on something	to depend on something for a particular result	We are all pinning our hopes on the new pipeline for a cleaner water supply.
pin something on something/somebody	to hang something on someone or something by pinning (See also pin something on someone)	The mayor pinned the medal on the boy who had rescued the swimmer. I pinned a yellow ribbon on my lapel.

pin something up on(to) something	to attach something to something, for display, with pins	I pinned the picture up onto the bulletin board where everyone could see it. I pinned up the picture.
pin up	fix something to a wall, or other vertical surface, with a pin	I PINNED the notice UP on the board.

pin something/somebody against something	to press and hold someone or something against something	The police pinned the mugger against the wall and put handcuffs on him. The wildlife veterinarian pinned the rhino against the walls of the enclosure and subdued it so it could be treated.

pin something/somebody beneath (somebody, something or an animal)	to trap someone or something beneath someone, an animal, or something	The mine cave-in pinned four miners beneath a beam. I held the alligator's mouth closed and pinned it beneath me.

pin something/somebody under something/somebody	to trap someone or something under someone or something	Someone knocked Gerry down and pinned Randy under him. The accident pinned Maggie under the car.

pinch somebody for something	to arrest someone for something	The cops pinched Max for driving without a license. Max was pinched for speeding.

pinch something back	to pinch off a bit of the top of a plant so it will branch and grow more fully	You should pinch this back so it will branch. Pinch back the new leaves at the top.

pinch something from something/somebody	to steal something from someone or something	Sam pinched an apple from the produce stand. We saw a pickpocket pinch a wallet from an old man.

pinch something off (of) something	to sever something from something by pinching (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Pinch the buds off the lower branches so the one at the top will bloom. Pinch off the lower buds.

pinch-hit for somebody	to bat for someone else in a baseball game	Wally Wilson will pinch-hit for Gary Franklin. Rodney Jones is pinch-hitting for Babe DiMaggio.
pinch-hit for somebody	to substitute for someone in any situation	Bart will pinch-hit for Fred, who is at another meeting today. Who will pinch-hit for me while I am on vacation?

pine after something/somebody	to long for or grieve for someone or something	Bob pined after Doris for weeks after she left. Dan is still pining for his lost dog. There is no point in pining over Claire.

pine away	suffer physically because of grief, stress, worry, etc.	He's been PINING AWAY since his wife died and is a shadow of his former self.
pine away (after something/somebody)	to waste away in melancholy and longing for someone or something	A year later, he was still pining away after Claire. Still, he is pining away.

pipe down	be quiet (often as an imperative)	The lecturer asked the students to PIPE DOWN and pay attention.
pipe down	to become quiet; to cease making noise; to shut up (Especially as a rude command)	Pipe down! I'm trying to sleep. Come on! Pipe down and get back to work!

pipe something (from some place) (to some place)	to conduct a liquid or a gas from one place to another place through a pipe	One oil company wanted to pipe oil all the way from northern Alaska to a southern port on the Pacific. The company pipes gas from the storage tanks in the middle of the state.

pipe something away	to conduct a liquid or a gas away through a pipe	We will have to pipe the excess water away. They piped away the water.

pipe something into some place	to bring music or other sound into a place over wires	They piped music into the stairways and elevators. The elevators were nice except that the management had piped in music.
pipe something into some place	to conduct a liquid or a gas into some place through a pipe	An excellent delivery system piped oxygen into every hospital room. They piped in oxygen to every room. They piped it in.

pipe up	an impolite way of telling someone that they must accept what you have just said even if they do not like it	Well, I'm going anyway, so put that in your pipe and smoke it!
pipe up	to speak unexpectedly "I want to be the first female president!" piped up one of the little girls.
pipe up	to speak, raise your voice	At first, no one answered, and then finally someone PIPED UP.
pipe up (with something)	to interject a comment; to interrupt with a comment	Nick piped up with an interesting thought. You can always count on Alice to pipe up.

piss off	go away	Piss off, Chris, and stop flooding my e-mail with garbage!

piss on !

pit against	to compete or force to compete	The war PITTED neighbour AGAINST neighbour.

pit of !

pit out	go into the pits (car racing)	He PITTED OUT in the twentieth lap.

pit something/somebody against something/somebody	to set someone or something in opposition to someone or something	The rules of the tournament pit their team against ours. John pitted Mary against Sally in the tennis match.
pit against somebody/something !

pitch for	to try to persuade someone to give your work, business, a job, etc.	He PITCHED FOR the job, but they gave it to someone else.

pitch forward	to jerk or thrust forward	Suddenly the car pitched forward, jerking the passengers around. We pitched forward inside the car as we went over the bumpy road.

pitch in	to help with others to get something done	As soon as we knew what a big job it was, Gwen and I just pitched in with the rest of the group.
pitch in	to spoil someone's chances of doing something	She queered my pitch by asking for promotion before I did.
pitch in	to work together to help achieve an objective	We were behind schedule, but the others PITCHED IN and we got it done in time.

pitch into	to criticize severely or attack someone	The shareholders PITCHED INTO the management about their pay rises at the meeting.
pitch something into something	to toss or throw something into something	Please pitch your aluminum cans into this container. She pitched in the can.

pitch something at something/somebody	to aim advertising at a particular group	They pitched the ad campaign at teenagers. These comedy programs are pitched at the lowest level of mentality.
pitch something at something/somebody	to throw something at someone or something	The boys pitched cans at the tree. We all pitched rocks at the big boulder.

pitch something away	to toss or throw something away	He pitched the broken stick away, and looked around for something stronger. He pitched away the stick.

pitch something out	to throw something away; to discard something	This cottage cheese is so old, I'm going to pitch it out. They pitched out the bad food.
pitch something/somebody out (of) something	to throw someone or something out of something or some place (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The usher pitched the drunk out of the theater. The usher pitched out the annoying person.

pitch something/somebody over something	to toss someone or something over something	Then Max tried to pitch Lefty over the railing onto the tracks. Billy pitched the stone over the wall.

pivot on something	to rotate on something; to spin around, centered on something	This part spins around and pivots on this little red spot, which is what they call a jewel. If the lever will not pivot on the bar, it needs some lubrication.

place on something/somebody !

place in something/somebody !

plan for somebody	to prepare enough [of something] for someone	Fred just called and said he can show up for dinner after all. Please plan for him. Tony wasn't planned for, and there is no place for him to sit.
plan for something	to prepare for something	I need to take some time and plan for my retirement. We carefully planned for almost every possibility.
plan for something	to prepare or estimate for a certain number [of people or things]	I am planning for twelve. I hope everyone can come.

plan on ([doing] something)
plan on somebody	to be ready for someone; to anticipate someone's arrival	She plans on taking a course. Michael planned on studying in the U.S. We're planning on going to the movie tonight. Don't plan on Sam. He has a cold and probably won't come. We are planning on Ted and Bill.
plan on something	to prepare for something; to be ready for something; to anticipate something	If I were you, I would plan on a big crowd at your open house. This was not planned on.

plan something out	to make thorough plans for something	Let us sit down and plan our strategy out. We sat down and planned out our strategy.

plane something away	to smooth off bumps or irregularities with a plane	Please plane the bumps away so that the board is perfectly smooth. Sam planed away the bumps.

plane something down	to smooth something down with a plane; to remove some material from something with a plane	I will have to plane the door down before I hang it again. I planed down the edge of the door for you.

plane something off	to remove bumps, nicks, or scrapes by planing	Plane the rough places off so the surface will be as smooth as possible. Sam planed off the bumps.

plant something in something	to conceal something in something	The crook planted the money in the back of the refrigerator. What did the cops plant in your pockets?
plant something in something	to put an idea in someone's brain, head, or thinking	Who planted that silly idea in your head? I want to plant this concept in her thinking.
plant something in something	to set out a plant in something; to sow seeds in something	Are you going to plant tomatoes in these pots? What have you planted in the garden?

plaster down !

plaster over something	to cover over something with plaster	I think that we will just plaster over the cracks in the wall.

plaster something onto something	to spread a substance onto something	She plastered great globs of the jam onto the toast. She plastered on lots of butter.

plaster something up	to close something up with plaster; to cover over holes or cracks in a wall with plaster	He plastered the cracks up and then painted over them. You have to plaster up the cracks.

plaster something with something	to spread some substance onto something	Jane plastered each slice of bread with butter and then heaped on a glob of jam. She plastered the wall with a thin coat of fine white plaster.

play along	o pretend to agree or accept something in order to keep someone happy or to get more information	I disagreed with the idea but I had to PLAY ALONG because everyone else liked it.

play around	to be silly	The children were PLAYING AROUND and being annoying.

play at	to pretend to be something	He just PLAYS AT being a lawyer- he never wins a case.

play away	to be sexually unfaithful when away from home	He travels abroad a lot and his wife thinks he PLAYS AWAY.

play back	to listen to or watch something you've recorded	We PLAYED the recording BACK to see if it was OK.

play down	to diminish the significance of; To make something sound less important	The CEO tried to play down the dismal financial report.
play down	to try to make something seem less important	The Government has tried to PLAY DOWN the importance of the minister's resignation.

play (with something/somebody) !

play for !
play somebody for !

play freeze-out	to open windows and doors, or turn down a thermostat, making someone cold	Wow, it's cold in here! Who's playing freeze-out? Is someone trying to play freeze-out?

play off	to make people compete against each other so that you benefit	He PLAYED them OFF against each other to get the best deal.
play off	to play a game to decide who the winner is	As both teams had the same points, they PLAYED OFF to decide the winner.

play on	to continue playing a sport though there might be a reason to stop	It looked like a foul, but the referee told them to PLAY ON.
play on	to continue playing music	The band PLAYED ON for another hour.
play on	to exploit a weakness	They are just PLAYING ON our fears to get us to do what they want.
play on	to pun	The advert PLAYS ON the slogan.

play out	to play something to the end	Rain stopped them PLAYING the game OUT.
play out	to pretend that something is real and reduce its effect	Computer games allow people to PLAY OUT their violent urges.
play out	to progress, often till it finishes	Let's see how things PLAY OUT.

play up	to behave badly	The children PLAYED UP all evening and drove the babysitter mad.
play up	to exaggerate the significance of; To make something sound more important	He likes to play up the fact that he was raised in a tough neighborhood.
play up to	to flatter someone	I'm PLAYING UP TO my boss at the moment because I want the promotion.

play upon	to exploit a weakness	They are PLAYING UPON people's concerns to get their way.

play with	to consider something, but not seriously	We PLAYED WITH the idea, but decided against it.
play with	to not eat much of a meal	I wasn't hungry, so I just PLAYED WITH the food.
play with	to touch and move something to occupy your hands	He can't stop PLAYING WITH his beard.

plead for somebody	to beg for someone to be spared	Tom pleaded for Dave, but it was no use. Dave was found guilty. She pleaded for her husband, but the judge sentenced him to ten years in prison.
plead for something	to beg for something	I don't want to have to plead for what's already mine. The children were pleading for ice cream, so we got some for them.

plead guilty to something	to state that one is guilty of a crime before a court of law	Gerald refused to plead guilty to the crime and had to stand trial. Max pleaded guilty to the charge and then fled town.
plead to something	to enter an admission of guilt to a specific crime	Max pleaded to the lesser charge of larceny. Lefty pleaded to the grand larceny charge.

plead out	to plead guilty to get a reduced sentence or fine	The CEO PLEADED OUT and blamed the CFO for the fraud.

pleased with

pledge something	to someone to promise something to someone	I pledged one hundred dollars to Ralph for his cause. We pledged a lot of money to our favorite charity.

plight to somebody !

plod along	to move along slowly but deliberately	I'm just plodding along, but I am getting the job done. The old man plodded along, hardly able to stand. The movie plodded along putting most of the audience to sleep.

plod away at something	to keep trying to do something	He continues to plod away at writing his novel. It's been three years now. How long have you been plodding away at that book?

plod through something	to work one's way through something laboriously	I just plodded through my work today. I had no energy at all. This is certainly a lot of papers to have to plod through.

plonk something down	to slap something down; to plop something down	He plonked a dollar down and demanded a newspaper. He plonked down his beer mug on the bar.

plot against something/somebody	to make a scheme against someone or something	All the counselors plotted against the czar. We plotted against the opposing party.

plot something on something	to draw a route or outline on something	He plotted the course they would be taking on a map of the area. The captain plotted the course on a chart of the upper reaches of the Nile.

plot something out	to map something out; to outline a plan for something	I have an idea about how to remodel this room. Let me plot it out for you. I plotted out my ideas for the room.

plough back	to re-invest money you have made into a business	We PLOUGHED BACK all the profits to grow the company.

plough into	to collide into at speed	The bus skidded and PLOUGHED INTO the bus stop.

plough on	to continue doing something you don't want to	It was really boring, but we PLOUGHED ON.

plough through	to eat a big meal	We PLOUGHED THROUGH all seven courses.
plough through	to move through somewhere where there is little space or there are obstacles	The boat had to PLOUGH THROUGH the ice.
plough through	to read something that is difficult or takes a lot of time	It took me ages to PLOUGH THROUGH 'Ulysses'.

plough up	to break the surface of soil	The tractor PLOUGHED UP the field so they could sow the seed.

plow back	to re-invest money you have made into a business	We PLOWED BACK all the profits to grow the company.

plow into	to collide into at speed	The bus skidded and PLOWED INTO the bus stop.

plow on	to continue doing something you don't want to	It was really boring, but we PLOWD ON.

plow through	to eat a big meal	We PLOWED THROUGH all eight courses.
plow through	to move through somewhere where there is little space or there are obstacles	The police car had to PLOW THROUGH the crowd.
plow through	to read something that is difficult or takes a lot of time	It takes me ages to PLOW THROUGH any of Henry James' novels.

plow up	to break the surface of soil	The tractor PLOWED UP the field so they could sow the crop.

pluck at something/somebody	to pull or pick at someone or something	Kelly plucked at Ed, picking off the burrs that had caught on his clothing. Kelly plucked at the strings of the guitar.

pluck something from something/somebody	to pick, grab, or snatch something from someone	Sally plucked a chocolate from the box and popped it into her mouth. He stooped over and plucked a rose from the bush.

pluck something off (of) something/somebody	to pick something off someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	She plucked the mosquito off his back before it could bite him. She plucked off the bud.

pluck something out of !

pluck up !

plug (oneself) in (to something)	to become attached to something; to become attached to some sort of network or system	As soon as I have plugged my laptop into the local network, I will have access to the Internet. I plugged myself into the computer network and began to communicate quickly and efficiently.
plug in	to connect machines to the electricity supply	He PLUGGED the TV IN and turned it on full blast.

plug away (at something)	to do something which prevents an activity from continuing, especially to stop giving money (often + on)	If the viewing figures drop much further, the TV company will pull the plug on the whole series.
plug away (at something)	to keep trying something; to keep working at something	John kept pegging away at the trumpet until he became pretty good at it. I'm not very good at it, but I keep plugging away.
plug away (at something)	to keep working in a determined way	He's experienced plenty of hard times, but Ed is still plugging away, playing several nights a week at a local jazz club. The powerful computer was plugging away at the problem for weeks.

plug something into something (and plug something in)	to connect something to something else, usually by connecting wires together with a plug and socket	Plug this end of the wire into the wall. Plug in the lamp and turn it on.

plug something up	to stop or fill up a hole, crack, or gap	Take out the nail and plug the hole up with something. You have to plug up the cracks to keep out the cold.

plumb (of something) !

plummet to earth	to fall rapidly to earth from a great height	The rocket plummeted to earth and exploded as it struck. As the plane plummeted to earth, all the people on the ground were screaming.
plummet to something	to drop or fall to some level or low point	Stock prices plummeted to record low levels. The rock plummeted to the river at the base of the cliff.

plump for	to choose	I PLUMPED FOR the steak frites.
plump for somebody/something	to support or promote someone or something	Henry spent a lot of energy plumping for Bill, who was running for vice president. She spent a lot of time plumping for our candidate.
plump for somebody/something	to support someone or something enthusiastically	Marcy had been writing campaign speeches and plumping for McCarthy since December.

plump something down	to drop a heavy load of something	She plumped the load of groceries onto the bench and looked through her purse for the keys. Jill plumped down her packages.
plump something down	to drop something as if it were a heavy load	He plumped the potatoes down on each plate, making a loud noise each time. Dave plumped down a huge slab of meat onto the grill.

plump something up	to pat or shake something like a pillow into a fuller shape	Todd plumped his pillow up and finished making the bed. He plumped up his pillow.

plunge down something	to run or fall down something	The car plunged down the hill and ran into a tree at the bottom. The bicyclist plunged down the side of the hill at a great speed.

plunge from something	to fall or flee from something or some place	The eagle plunged from the sky to the lake to capture its prey. Lily plunged from the room in embarrassment.

plunge in(to something)	to dive or rush into something; to immerse oneself in something	Ned took off his shoes and plunged into the river, hoping to rescue Frank. He plunged into his work and lost track of time.

plunge something into something/somebody	to drive or stab something into someone or something	The murderer plunged the knife into his victim. She plunged in the dagger.

plunge to something	to dive or fall to one's death	She walked straight to the edge of the cliff and plunged to her death. The burro slipped and plunged to an untimely end.
plunge to something	to fall or drop down to something	The temperature plunged to zero last night. The burning car plunged to the floor of the canyon.

plunk (oneself) down	to sit or fall down hard	Nancy pulled up a chair and plunked herself down. She pulled the chair up and plunked down. She plunked herself down in the middle of the kids and began to sing.
plunk something/somebody down	to place, drop, or plop someone or something down hard	He picked her up and plunked her down in a chair and began to shout at her. Sally plunked down the book in anger.

ply (somebody with something else)	to try to supply or give something to someone (Implies an attempt to influence or fawn upon someone)	We plied the mayor with gifts and favors, but it got us nowhere. Don't try to ply the police officer with gifts. That is considered a bribe.
ply somebody with something	to do your usual work or business	Fishermen in small boats ply their trade up and down the coast.
ply somebody with something	to give someone a lot of something	We were plied with coffee, doughnuts, and refreshments. He plied me with liquor, hoping to get me drunk. Usage notes: often used in the form ply someone with questions (to ask someone a lot of questions): Anxious to hear the latest news, they plied us with questions.
ply somebody with something	to travel between things or places regularly or constantly	There are a number of small craft that ply between Santerem and Manaus on a regular basis. Our little ship was unable to ply the entire distance between the two islands.

point at something/somebody

point out	to indicate/direct attention to something	The teacher pointed out the mistake.
point out	to make someone aware of something	He POINTED OUT that I only had two weeks to get the whole thing finished. That's exactly what I pointed out earlier.
point out	to indicate; To bring to someone's attention	I'd like to point out that two of the bank robbers were from Canada.
point out something; point something out
point somebody/something out	indicate with your finger	I'll point my boyfriend out when he runs by.

poise oneself for something	to get ready for something	She poised herself for her dive. Fred poised himself for a fall, but everything worked out all right.
poise over something/somebody	to hover or hang over someone or something	She spent the entire afternoon poised over her desk, pouting. The dog poised over the downed duck, waiting for the hunter.

poison (somebody or an animal) with something	to render someone or an animal sick or dead with a poison	He intended to poison his wife with arsenic. Barry wanted to poison the cat with something that left no trace. He poisoned himself with the cleaning compound.
poison something with something	to render something poisonous with something	She poisoned the soup with arsenic. They are poisoning our water supply with pollutants.

poison somebody against something/somebody	to cause someone to have negative or hateful thoughts about someone, a group, or something	You have done nothing more than poison Gerald against all of us! Stop talking to him! Your negative comments poisoned everyone against the proposal.

poke in something !
poke somebody in something	to strike or jab someone in some body part	Billy poked Bobby in the tummy and made him cry. She poked herself in the eye accidentally.

poke about (in something)	to rummage around in something or some place; to look through things in something or some place	I'll have to go up and poke about in the attic to see if lean find it. Janet went to the attic and spent the rest of the afternoon poking around.

poke along	to move along slowly; to lag or tarry	Get moving. Stop poking along. I was just poking along, taking my time, not paying attention to what was going on around me.

poke around	and poke about to look or search around	I've been poking around in the library looking for some statistics. I don't mind if you look in my drawer for a paper clip, but please don't poke about.
poke around	to waste time while moving about	I just poked around all afternoon and didn't accomplish much. Stop poking around and get moving.

poke at something/somebody	to thrust or jab at someone or something	Stop poking at me! Don't poke at the turtle. It might bite you.
poke something at something/somebody	to jab or thrust something at someone or something	Don't poke that thing at me! The hunter poked his spear at the pig one more time and decided it was dead.

poke one's nose in (to something)	to interfere with something; to be nosy about something	I wish you'd stop poking your nose into my business. She was too upset for me to stick my nose in and ask what was wrong.

poke out (of something)	to stick out of something; to extend out of something	The bean sprouts were beginning to poke out of the soil of the garden. I knew there were little birds in the birdhouse, because a little head poked out now and then.
poke something out of something	to thrust something out of something	The lobster poked its antennae out of the little cave and wiggled them around. It poked out its antennae.

poke something into something	to stick or cram something into something	He poked his finger into the jam, pulled it out again, and licked it. Jeff poked in his finger.
poke into something !

poke something through something/somebody	to jab or stab something through someone or something	The evil knight poked his weapon through Arthur and withdrew it again. Danny poked his finger through the plastic pool liner by mistake.
poke through (something)	to stick through something; to extend through something	The tips of Tommy's toes poked through his sneakers and looked very cold. The end of the lost spoon poked through the piecrust on the freshly baked pie. Now we knew where it had disappeared to.

polish off	to finish, consume	She POLISHES OFF half a bottle of gin every night. Peter polished off the rest of the spaghetti.
polish off something	cleaning and rubbing	All it needed was a bit of spit and polish and we got it looking as good as new.
polish off something	orderliness; ceremonial precision and orderliness	I like spit and polish. It comes from being in the military. There is no such thing as too much spit and polish.
polish off something	to finish something quickly and easily	He polished off two burgers and a mountain of French fries. He was nearly finished with the report, and said he could polish it off in another hour or two. Usage notes: most often used about eating something: He polished off entire pizzas.
polish something off	to eat, consume, exhaust, or complete all of something	Who polished the cake off? Who polished off the cake?

polish something up	to rub something until it shines	Polish the silver up and make it look nice and shiny. If you will polish up the silver, I will put it away.
polish up	to improve something quickly	I need to POLISH UP my French before I go to Paris.

pollute something with something	to adulterate something with something; to dirty something with something	You should not pollute the stream with chemicals. Someone polluted the sewer with automotive oil.

ponder (up)on something	to think on something; to consider something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Ponder upon this awhile. See what you come up with. I need to ponder on this.

pontificate on something	to speak and act dogmatically and pompously	Must you pontificate on your own virtues so much? The speaker was pontificating on the virtues of a fat-free diet.

pony up	pay for something	I had to PONY fifty dollars UP for the meal.
pony up (something)	to pay money	The price of gas increased and homeowners had to pony up more than anyone expected this winter.
pony up (something)	walking as a method of travel	I missed the last bus and had to get home on Shanks's pony.

poop out	to get too tired to do something	I was going to write my essay, but I POOPED OUT and went to bed instead.
poop out	to quit; to wear out and stop	He pooped out after about an hour of hard work. I think I'm going to poop out pretty soon.
poop out on	to fail to keep an appointment	We were supposed to meet yesterday, but she POOPED OUT ON me at the last minute.
poop something/somebody out	to cause someone to become exhausted or give out	All that exercise really pooped everyone out. A full day of play at the beach had pooped the dog out. The activity pooped out the dog.

pop around (for a visit)	to come by [someone's residence] for a visit	You simply must pop around for a visit sometime. I will pop by about noon. I can pop in for only a minute.

pop back (for something)	to come back to a place for just a moment	Okay, I think I can pop back for a minute. I have to pop back for something I forgot.

pop down (for a visit)	to come or go to someone's home that is downstairs or in a place on a lower level	You simply must pop down for a visit whenever you get a chance. I'll try to pop down tomorrow evening after dinner.

pop for something	to pay for a treat (for someone)	Let's have some ice cream. I'll pop for it. It's about time you popped for coffee.

pop in	to come or go into some place, such as a store, shop, etc., for a moment	Let me pop into the bakery for a minute. I have to pop into the drugstore for some shampoo.
pop in	to snap into place in something	The little plastic thing popped into its slot, and the model plane was finished. It pops in and holds tight if you do it right.
pop in	to visit suddenly and for a short time	He POPPED IN for a coffee on his way home. I just popped in to wish her good luck.

pop off	to go out for a short time	He's just POPPED OFF for a break but should be back in a few minutes.
pop off	to talk loudly, complain	He's always POPPING OFF when things don't suit him.
pop off	to complain angrily about something	Neal popped off in a nationally televised interview. Those owners are always popping off about the difficulty of competing against wealthy teams.
pop off	to die	My uncle popped off last week. I hope I'm asleep when I pop off.
pop off	to leave; to depart in haste	Bye, I must pop off. Got to pop off. I'm late.
pop off	to lose one's temper	Now, don't pop off. Keep your cool. I don't know why she popped off at me. All I did was say hello.
pop off	to make an unnecessary remark; to interrupt with a remark; to sound off	Please don't pop off all the time. Bob keeps popping off when he should be listening.
pop somebody off	to kill someone	Max was told to pop Lefty off because he was trying to muscle in on the gang's turf. Max intended to pop off Lefty.

pop out	to go out for a short time	I'm just POPPING OUT to the shops. Do you need anything while I'm out?
pop out (of something)	to jump out of something; to burst out of something	Suddenly, a little mouse popped out of the drawer. I opened the drawer and a mouse popped out.
pop something out of something	to release something from something so that it jumps or bursts out, possibly with a popping sound	Sue popped the cork out of the champagne bottle. It took a little effort to pop the cork out. She popped out the cork with a quick tug.

pop somebody (on something)	to strike someone on some body part	If you don't sit down, I'll pop you on the chin! Max popped Lefty on the nose.
pop something on(to) something	to snap something onto something	Denise took one more sip of the medicine and popped the lid onto the bottle.

pop something into something	to fit, snap, or press something into place in something	Lee popped the lever into place, and the machine began to function. Lee popped in the plastic part, and the toy ran beautifully.


pop something up	to remove something by making it jump or burst upwards	Henry popped the lid up and helped himself to the strawberry preserves. He popped up the lid and cleaned out the jam jar.
pop up	to appear unexpectedly	I'm going to have to work late tonight because something has POPPED UP.
pop up	to appear, like windows and boxes opening on a computer screen	The dialogue box POPPED UP when I pressed Enter.
pop up	to appear suddenly	After World War II, pizzerias popped up in every city in the nation.
pop up	to arise suddenly; to appear without warning	New problems keep popping up all the time. Billy popped up out of nowhere and scared his mother.
pop up	[for a baseball batter] to hit a baseball that goes high upward rather than outward	The catcher came to bat and popped up. I hope I don't pop up this time.
pop up	[for a baseball] to fly high upward rather than outward	The ball popped up and went foul. The ball will always pop up if you hit it in a certain way.
pop up (some place)	to appear suddenly and unexpectedly some place	I never know where Henry is going to pop up next. A new problem has popped up.

pore over something	to look at and carefully study a document	She spends a lot of time poring over the historical records of the church.
pore over something	to look over something carefully	She pored over the reports, looking for errors. I need to take a few hours to pore over these contracts and see if they are ready to be signed.

portion something out	to give out shares of something	Who will portion the cake out? She portioned out the chocolate carefully, making sure every one got an equal share.

portray somebody as something/somebody	to represent or describe someone as someone or a type of person	Fred portrayed his political opponent as an evil man. She tried to portray herself as a grand lady, but she fooled no one.
portray something/somebody as somebody	to develop a character that one is playing in a dramatic production as a kind of person or someone having certain characteristics or a particular personality	Tom portrayed Scrooge as an evil old man. Randy hopes to portray his character as a sympathetic friend.

pose as somebody	to pretend to be someone else	The impostor posed as the president of the company. My twin posed as me while I went on vacation.
pose as something/somebody	to pretend to be someone or a type of person	I posed as Gerald and got the job. I posed as a nurse and got a job at a summer camp.

pose for something/somebody	to assume a posture appropriate to the subject of a photograph or painting	Paul wanted me to pose for him, but I declined. Will you pose for my painting?

post something on something	to fasten a notice onto something	Please post this notice on the door where everyone will see it. I will post this photo on the bulletin board.

post something to somebody	to mail something to someone	I posted it to him over a month ago. I can't imagine where it is now. The letter was posted last week.

post something up	to record a transaction in an account	I'll post this charge up right away, and then you can check out. Please post up the charges a little later.

postpone something until something	to delay something until something happens or until a later time	Can we postpone our meeting until tomorrow? The picnic was postponed until Saturday.

posture as something/somebody	to pretend to be someone or a particular type of person	Why is the secretary posturing as the manager and giving out assignments? Carla entered the ballroom, posturing as a grand duchess of somewhere or another.

pot something up	to put plants into pots	If you would like one of these tomato plants, I'll pot one up for you. Jan potted up a plant for me.

potter about	to spend time doing little things for pleasure	On Saturday mornings, I POTTER ABOUT the garden if the weather's fine.

potter around	to spend some time doing little things for pleasure	I POTTERED AROUND, sorting out my CDS and a few other things.

pounce (up)on something/somebody	to spring or swoop upon someone or something; to seize someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	As Gerald came into the room, his friend Daniel pounced on him and frightened him to death. The cat pounced upon a mouse.

pound along something	to tap or hammer along something	The worker pounded along the edge of the roof, looking for rotten places. I pounded along the wall, looking for a stud to nail into.
pound along something	to walk or run along something awkwardly or heavily	As the horse pounded along the street, the rider tried hard to get it to slow down. Tom pounded along the pavement, looking a bit angry.

pound away (at something/somebody)	to hammer or batter constantly on someone or something	The cops pounded away at the poor guy, and then they put him in handcuffs. The jackhammer kept pounding away at the pavement.

pound for pound	[Usually of value, quality, strength, etc.] considering the amount of weight involved	Pound for pound, a dog fed properly is much stronger than a dog that has to fend for itself. Pound for pound, there is more food value in beef than in chicken.

pound on something/somebody	to beat or hammer on someone or something	She kept pounding on him until he released her. Will you please stop pounding on that drum?
pound something on something/somebody	to hit or strike someone or something with something	Sarah pounded the vase on the robber until it broke. Betty stood pounding her shoe on the radiator, hoping the racket would magically bring heat.

pound out something	to produce something quickly and with a lot of energy	I'm able to pound out at least three articles every week. He pounded out a couple of tunes on the old piano. Usage notes: often used to suggest that something was not produced carefully or correctly.

pound in !

pound something down	to hammer, flatten, or batter something	Please pound that nail down so that no one gets hurt on it. Yes, please pound down that nail!

pound something out	to flatten something by pounding	He pounded the gold leaf out very thin. He pounded out the gold leaf.
pound something out	to play something loudly on the piano, perhaps with difficulty or clumsily	Here, pound this one out. A little softer, please. She was pounding out a nice little tune.
pound something out	to type something on a keyboard	I have finished writing it. Can I borrow your laptop so I can pound it out? All the reporters were pounding out stories for the next edition of the paper.

pound something up	to break something up by pounding	Pound the crackers up into crumbs and use them to coat the chicken before you fry it. Pound up the crackers and put the crumbs in a jar.

pour down	to rain hard	It POURED DOWN all day so we had to remain indoors.

pour forth	to emerge from a place in large numbers	Useless statistics POUR FORTH from him.

pour on !

pour with !

pout about something/somebody	to be sullen about someone or something	There is no need to pout about the cat. She'll come back. Sally is pouting about her lost dog.

powder up	to drink heavily; to get drunk	Let's go out and powder up. He's at the tavern powdering up.

power something up	to start something, such as an engine	You should power the engine up and let it run awhile before you drive away. Power up the engine and mow the grass.
power up	to start an engine	Well, let's power up so we will be ready to leave with the others. It's time to power up and get going.

power something with something	to provide something as the source of energy for something to operate	The government decided to power its vans with natural gas engines. We will power the generators with coal as long as it is cheap.

practice (up)on something/somebody	to train or drill on someone or something (In preparation for the real thing; Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	I do not want a dental student practicing upon me. I want to learn how to braid hair. Can I practice on you?

praise somebody for something

praise somebody/something to !

prance around	to dance, jump, or strut around	The little deer were prancing around, enjoying the spring air. Stop prancing around and get to work.
prance around something	to dance or jump in celebration around something or throughout some place (Compare this with waltz around something)	The kids pranced around the room, celebrating. They pranced around the table that held the ice cream and cake.

prattle (away) about something/somebody	to chatter idly and endlessly about someone or something	The little girl prattled away for an hour about her school, her friends, and her toys. I wish you would stop prattling about your friends.

prattle on	talk too much	Geoff just PRATTLED ON instead of giving a straight answer.

pray for
pray for something/somebody	to ask God, or some other deity, to grant something	The family prayed for David's safety. All the people prayed for peace.
pray for something/somebody	to beseech God, or some other deity, on behalf of someone or something	I will pray for you to recover from your illness quickly. As the fire spread throughout the old church, the congregation prayed for its preservation.

pray over something	to say grace over a meal	Do you pray over your meals? We prayed over dinner just after we sat down to eat.
pray over something	to seek divine guidance about something through prayer	I will have to think about it and pray over it awhile. I'll have an answer next week. She prayed over the problem for a while and felt she had a solution.

pray to something/somebody	to utter prayers of praise or supplication to some divine or supernatural being or something	I pray to God that all this works out. The high priest prayed to the spirits of his ancestors that the rains would come.
pray to the porcelain god	to kneel at the toilet bowl and vomit from drunkenness	Wally spent a while praying to the porcelain god last night. I think I have to go pray to the porcelain god.

preach about something	to give a moral or stern discourse on something	Please don't preach about the evils of fried food. I like the stuff, and people eat it all the time and don't die! She was preaching about the value of a fat-free diet.

preach against something/somebody	to exhort against someone or something	The evangelist preached against the operator of the town's only saloon. The principal kept preaching against drinking and drugs.

preach at somebody	to lecture or moralize at someone	Don't preach at me! I don't need any of your moralizing. I really don't wish to be preached at.

preach to somebody	to give a moral discourse to someone	Please don't preach to me. I know that I did wrong. When you preach to us like that, we don't pay any attention to you.

precipitate into something	[for a chemical] to go out of solution into solid form	The sodium chloride precipitated into a salt. Will this compound precipitate into anything if I cool it?
precipitate into something	[for something] to become a more serious matter	By then, the street fight had precipitated into a riot. We were afraid that the argument would precipitate into a fight.
precipitate something into something	to cause a chemical to go out of a solution into a solid form	Adding just one salt grain at the right time will precipitate the salt dissolved into the water into large crystals. One grain precipitated the dissolved salt into crystals.
precipitate something into something	to cause something to become more serious	The gunshot precipitated the incident into a riot. The rally was precipitated into a serious brawl.

preclude something/somebody from something	to prevent someone or something from being included in something; to eliminate someone from something in advance	Your remarks do not preclude me from trying again, do they? These facts do not preclude my company from consideration, do they?

predicate something (up)on something	to base something on something	There is no need to predicate my promotion upon the effectiveness of my secretary! You can hardly predicate the picnic on the weather, can you?

predispose something/somebody to(ward) something	to make someone or something susceptible to something	Your comments will not predispose me toward a favorable treatment of your case. Do you think that this weather will predispose me to catching a cold?

preface something by something	to begin something by saying, writing, or reading something	I would like to preface my prepared remarks by making a personal observation. Her remarks were prefaced by the reading of a poem.

preface something with something	to begin something with a particular message	She prefaced her speech with a recitation of one of her favorite poems. Alice prefaced her remarks with a few personal comments.

prefer (something) to (something else)
prefer to	I prefer tea to coffee. He prefers English to chemistry.
prefer something/somebody to somebody (or something else)	to rank the desirability of someone or something over someone or something else	For the post of treasurer, I prefer Don to Jill. I prefer missing a meal to Jill's cooking.

prefer something against somebody	to file legal charges against someone [with the police]; to file a complaint or a charge against someone	The neighbors preferred charges against the driver of the car who ruined their lawns. I will not prefer charges against the driver, since it was partly my fault.

prefix something to something	to place something at the beginning of a word or part of a word	If you prefix a re- to some verbs, you get an entirely different meaning. You can't prefix anything to some verbs.

prejudice something/somebody against something/somebody	to turn someone or a group against someone or something	I believe that the lawyer was trying to prejudice the jury against the defendant. The discussion about how calves are raised prejudiced me against eating veal.

prepare for	Mary isВ preparing forВ TOEFL.
prepare for something
prepare something/somebody for something	to get someone or something ready for something	I prepared her for her trip by going over her itinerary. I prepared the garden for planting.
prepare the ground for something	if you prepare the ground for an activity or a situation, you do something that will help it to happen (usually + for)	The leaders of both countries are preparing the ground for negotiations which may lead to peace.
prepare the ground for something	to build someone up for shocking news	I went in and had a talk with her to prepare her for the report. You should prepare yourself for the worst.
prepare the ground for something	to make conditions ready for something to happen in the future (Usage notes: often used in a political context)	These experiments prepared the ground for the development of sound-recording technology. Even if she is preparing the ground to run for governor, the senator will probably stay in the Senate.
prepare the way (for somebody/something)	to create an opportunity for something to happen	His comments prepared the way for the two organizations to work together. Her election prepared the way for me and others like me.

prepared for something

prescribe something for somebody	to order a medication to be given to or sold to someone	I asked the doctor to prescribe a painkiller for me. What can you prescribe for me for this illness?
prescribe something for something	to suggest or recommend something for a particular disease	Could you prescribe something for my cold? What can you prescribe for this illness?

present somebody (to somebody) (at something)	to introduce someone to someone at some event	They presented him to the queen at her birthday party. I will present you to the rest of the committee.

present somebody with something

preserve something for something/somebody	to save, maintain, or protect something for someone or some thing	Try to preserve some of these memories for your grandchildren. We learned how to preserve leaves for future reference.

preserve something/somebody against something	to guard or protect someone or something against something (Stilted or old-fashioned in reference to people)	I hope that the vaccine will preserve us against influenza. There is nothing in the jam to preserve it against spoilage.

preserve something/somebody from something/somebody	to protect or guard someone or something from someone or something	Please help preserve our people from the attacks of our enemies. Is there any way to preserve my skin against the harmful rays of the sun?

preside at something	to manage or act as chair at a meeting or a ceremony	The mayor presided at the meeting, assuring that the speeches would be very short. She presided at the ceremony.

preside over something	to be in control of the order and procedures of a meeting or ceremony	The vice president will have to preside over the next meeting. I will be glad to preside over the discussion.

press ahead	continue with something	They PRESSED AHEAD with the elections despite the violence.

press charges (against somebody)	to make a formal charge of wrongdoing against someone	They agreed not to press charges against me if I agreed to pay for the damages.

press on	continue with something	We PRESSED ON to get to our destination before night fell.

press somebody into service	to persuade or force someone to do something	Murphy pressed his sister into service to do the research.
press something into service	to use something for an unusual purpose	A few buses and trucks were pressed into service, but the vast majority of refugees walked.
press something/somebody into service	to force someone or something to serve or function	I don't think you can press him into service just yet. He isn't trained. I think that in an emergency, we could press this machine into service.

pressure somebody into something	to force someone into doing something	Please don't try to pressure me into taking that promotion. You can't pressure me into it. I won't do it!

presume (up)on something/somebody	to take unwelcome advantage of someone or something	I didn't mean to seem to presume upon you. I apologize. I did not feel that you presumed on me.

prevail (up)on something/somebody (to do something)	to appeal to someone or a group to do something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	I will prevail upon her to attend the meeting. I prevailed on the committee to no avail.
prevail on somebody (to do something)	to persuade someone to do something	My father prevailed on some friends to let us stay with them for a few days. The TV network prevailed upon the organizers of the track and field championships to schedule the 100-meter final for Sunday afternoon.
prevail on somebody (to do something)	to win out over someone or something; to dominate someone or something	You will not prevail against me! I am sure that our team will prevail against the challengers.

prevent (somebody) from ([doing] something)
prevent from	Her poor SpanishВ preventedВ herВ fromВ getting the job in Peru.
prevent somebody from doing something	to keep someone from doing something	You can't prevent me from doing it! We must try to prevent her from going back there.
prevent somebody from something

prey (up)on something/somebody	to take advantage of someone or something (See also prey on something; Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The people of that island prey on tourists and do not give them good treatment. I really don't want to seem to prey upon your kindness.
prey on somebody	to commit a crime against someone	Police are looking for street criminals who prey on tourists. Gangs that prey upon small business owners in the city's Chinatown may be spreading to the suburbs.
prey on somebody	to have an effect on someone (Usage notes: sometimes said about something that has an effect on people's emotions)	Guilt preyed on him for years after the accident. The ads prey on our fear of being alone.
prey on something	to kill an animal in order to eat it	Spiders prey on small flies and other insects. Seals often prey upon the same fish people are trying to catch. Usage notes: said about animals that kill other animals for food.

price something down	to lower the price of something	When they start pricing this stuff down at the end of the season, I'll come in and buy something. I hope to price down the merchandise soon.

price something out	to list and total all the component prices of goods and services for a complex project	I have finished listing all the materials required for the project, and now I have to price it out so that we can decide if we can afford it.
price something/somebody out of the market	to raise or lower a price and drive someone or something out of the marketplace	You are a very good singer, but your agent has priced you out of the market. The discount prices posted by the chain store were meant to price us out of the market.

price something up	to raise the price of something	They have priced oranges up so high that I can't afford any. Why do they price up these common foods so high?
price up	to charge more for something	In rural areas where they have a monopoly, some garages PRICE UP fuel because there's nowhere else to buy it.
prick up !

pride oneself in something	to take pride in one of one's qualities or accomplishments	She prides herself in her ability to spot a shoplifter. I pride myself on my ability to find compromises.

pride yourself on something	to accept that you have to do something that you think is embarrassing or that you think you are too good to do	Swallow your pride and call your daughter to tell her you're sorry.
pride yourself on something	to value a special ability that you have	He prides himself on his teaching.

prime something with something	to enable something to start working or functioning with something	Larry primed the pump with a little water, and it began to do its work. We will prime the market for our new product with a free coupon offer.

primp (oneself) up	to get dressed up; to fix oneself up by combing, brushing, adjusting, etc.	Let me stop in the powder room and primp myself up a bit. I have to go in here and primp up.

print out	make a hard copy of a computer document	He PRINTED OUT the letter and checked through it carefully.
print something out	to use a computer printer to print something	I will print a copy out and send it to you. Please print out another copy.
print something out	to write something out by using block letters	Please print it out. I can't read your handwriting. Print out your name, please.

print something in something	to make block letters in a specific location on a paper	Please print your name in the box. Would you please print the information in the space provided?
print something in something	to publish something in a publication	They printed my letter in today's paper. Her stories have been printed in several magazines.

print something up	to set something in type and print it; to print something by any process	This looks okay to me. Let's print it up now. Print up the final version.

probe into something	to investigate something	The police will probe into the matter and report to the commissioner. We will take some time and probe into that for you.

probe something for something	to poke around in something for something	He probed his memory for some clue as to where he had been on that date. Sam probed the darkened space for the tool that he had mislaid.

proceed (from something) (to something)	to go from something or some place to something or some place	Next, we will proceed from Vienna to Budapest. We proceeded from Detroit, passing through rural Michigan.

proceed against something/somebody	to begin to move against someone or something	The entire platoon proceeded against the single enemy soldier who refused to surrender. The army proceeded against the fortress as planned.
proceed against something/somebody	to start legal action against someone or something	The district attorney will proceed against the suspect next week. The state prosecutor will proceed against the company as soon as one of the witnesses is located.

proceed with something	to move ahead with something; to continue something	Now, we will proceed with the reading of the minutes of the last meeting. When will you proceed with the needed action?

procure something (from something/somebody) (for something/somebody)	to get something from someone or something for someone or some purpose	I will procure a copy of the paper from Kelly for you. I have to procure a book for my sister.

produce something for something	to bring something out for some purpose	Lee quickly produced a penknife for cutting the string on the package. Ruth can always produce the right tool for the job.
produce something for something	to make something for some purpose	This production line produces brackets for the installation of the circuit boards in the next production line. We produce the seats for the trucks that they assemble on the other side of town.

produce something from something	to create something from something; to make something out of something	We are able to produce a high-quality writing paper from the scraps we trim off the edges of the books as we bind them. Jane produces an excellent jelly from the grapes she grows in her backyard.

profit by something	to gain money from something	You will surely profit by investing in this stock. I know I will profit from this investment.
profit by something	to learn from something	I am sure you will profit by your unpleasant experience. Yes, I will profit from my failure.

profit from something

progress to something	to reach all the way to something or some place	The crisis has progressed to its final stage. Things had progressed to a serious stage where nothing more could be done for him.

progress toward something	to move partway toward some goal	Nancy is progressing toward her degree quite nicely. We are progressing toward the end of the project.

prohibit (somebody) from ([doing] something)
prohibit from
prohibit somebody from something	to keep someone out of some place	Our policy is to prohibit people from the beach area after dark. State law prohibits children from this dangerous area while the machines are running.
prohibit somebody from something	to prevent someone from doing something	The committee voted to prohibit people from leaving before the meeting was over. They prohibit anyone from being seated after the first act has started.
prohibit something from something	to keep something out of or away from something or some place	The law prohibited bicycles from the sidewalks. The city council prohibits unleashed dogs from the public parks.
prohibit something from something	to prevent something from happening or from doing something	My mother prohibits me from going out with friends on school nights. Why do you want to prohibit the cars from traveling on this street during rush hour?

project into something	to extend into something	The end of the grand piano projected into the next room, but she had to have a grand, nonetheless. The front of the car projected into the flower bed when it was parked, but that was all right.

project something on (to) something/somebody	to show a picture, such as from a film, transparency, etc., onto something, such as a screen, wall, etc., or even onto a person	Henry projected the pictures onto the screen as he discussed each one. The teacher had to project the slides upon the wall.

project something onto somebody	to imagine that someone else experiences one's feelings, especially one's guilt or anger	Since you project your anger onto your best friends, you imagine you have gathered a number of angry people around you. You should not project your feelings onto other people.

promise something to somebody	to pledge something to someone	I promised this vase to my niece. Is this book promised to anyone?
promise the moon (to somebody)	to make extravagant promises to someone	Bill will promise you the moon, but he won't live up to his promises. My boss promised the moon, but never gave me a raise.

promote somebody (from something) (to something)	to raise someone's rank from something to something	They promoted her from teller to vice president. Carl promoted his daughter to supervisor.

pronounce something on something/somebody	to make a statement, usually a judgment, about someone or something	The judge pronounced final judgment on the prisoner. The family all pronounced a positive opinion on the cake.

prop up	to support something, both physically and financially, politically, etc.	The council have PROPPED UP the museum for years with grants.

propose something to somebody	to suggest something to someone	I have an idea I would like to propose to you. Sam wanted to propose a new plan to Sarah.
propose to somebody	to suggest marriage to someone, usually a male to a female	Guess who proposed to me last night? Do you think that Sam will propose to Mary?

prospect for something	to search for something, especially for metals or minerals	The old men said they were prospecting for gold. What are they prospecting for out in the desert?

prosper from something	to gain wealth from something	Carla prospered from trading on the options exchange. I hope you prosper from your new enterprise.

prostrate oneself before something/somebody	to lay oneself out in respect or obedience in front of someone or something	The members of the cult prostrated themselves before their leader. They prostrated themselves before the altar.
prostrate oneself before something/somebody	to submit to someone's dominance	If you think I'm going to prostrate my self before you and do as you ask, you are wrong. I will not prostrate myself before the high council!

protect (somebody) from (something)

protect something/somebody against something/somebody	to shield or preserve someone or something against someone or something	Please come along and protect us against muggers as we walk home. What will protect my car against thieves?

protest about something/somebody	to complain about someone or something	Valerie is always protesting about some problem at work. She filed a complaint that protested against her supervisor.
protest about something/somebody	to rally or demonstrate against someone or something	A number of people protested about the war. They were mainly protesting against the draft.

protrude from something/somebody	to stick out from someone or something	Even in the dark, I knew he was hurt because I could see the knife protruding from him. A knife protruded from the victim's back.

proud of
proud of something/somebody

prove out something	to show that something is true	Of the many accusations against her, only two ever proved out. I think there was better safety when there were more controls on the industry, but I don't know if the accident rates will prove that out or not.

prove something to somebody	to substantiate a claim about something to someone; to make someone believe or accept a statement about something	What do I have to do to prove my innocence to you? Nothing you say will prove it to me.
prove to be something	to be shown to be someone or something; to be found to be someone or something	Susan proved to be a good friend when she lent me some money. The food proved to be spoiled when I smelled it.

provide (somebody) with (something)
provide somebody with something	IВ providedВ MichaelВ withВ information for his report.
provide somebody with something	to supply something to someone	I will provide you with an escort to your car. Jane provided herself with just enough food to get through the weekend.
provide with something

provide against something	to plan against something happening	Have you provided against the possible collapse of the agreement? We have not provided against financial disaster.

provide for somebody	If you have good fortune, enjoy it and use it to your advantage	Frances: I feel I have an unfair advantage over other people in the violin contest. After all, my parents were able to give me lessons with the very best teachers when I was young. Alan: Frances, take the goods the gods provide.
provide for (somebody)	to give someone the things they need to live	His family provides for his tuition. Former prisoners must learn to provide for themselves once they get out of jail. She's struggling to provide for her family and pay her bills.
provide for something	to allow something	The permit will provide for a 30-day hunt beginning in late November.
provide for something	to take care of a need	After you cross the border you will have to provide for your own security. The shape of the tank is designed to provide for water circulation.
provide for something/somebody	to supply the needs of someone or something	Don't worry, we will provide for you. We will provide for the committee in the budget.
provide something for somebody
provide something for something/somebody	to supply something for someone or something	I will provide salad for the guests. Ted provided food for his dog.

provide something under something	to supply something in keeping with a contract, rule, guideline, agreement, etc.	We have agreed to provide two tons of coal per month under our contract. Do you want more? We will agree to provide ample insurance for our employees under union guidelines.

provided by somebody

provoke somebody into something	to incite someone into doing something	The soldiers sought to provoke the demonstrators into starting a riot. They provoked us into leaving.

prune something away	to cut away something unwanted or unneeded	Please prune the lower branches of the trees away. They are starting to annoy pedestrians. We pruned away the dead branches.

prune something of something	to clear, clean, or groom something of something by pruning	Sally was out in the orchard pruning the apple trees of dead branches. They pruned the roses of their unneeded branches.

prune something off (of) something	to cut something off something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Claire pruned the dead branch off the apple tree. She pruned off the dead branch.

pry around	to sneak or prowl around looking for something	Why are you prying around? Mind your own business! Please don't pry around. You might find out something you don't want to know.

pry into something	to snoop into something; to get into someone else's business	Why are you prying into my affairs all the time? I wish you wouldn't pry into my personal life.

pry something from somebody	to work information out of someone; to force someone to reveal information	I couldn't even pry her name from her. The police tried to pry the name of the killer out of Max.
pry something from something	to remove something from something with or as if with a lever	See if you can pry this wedge from its slot. I pried the rotted board out of the side of the house.

pry something off (of) something	to use a lever to get something off something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Tom pried the top off the jelly jar. He pried off the jar top.

pry something up	to raise something with or as with a lever	See if you can pry that trapdoor up. Pry up that lid.

psych out	to make someone less confident	Boxers try to PSYCH their opponents OUT before the fight to gain an advantage.
psych out	to become very excited; to lose mental control	I was so angry, I almost psyched out. The kids were psyching out over the rock star.
psych out	to have a nervous or emotional trauma; to go mad for a brief time	Another day like this one and I'll psych out for sure. He looked at the bill and psyched out.
psych out	to work out or anticipate someone's intentions	We have to try to PSYCH OUT our rivals.
psych out somebody	to make someone believe that they will fail	Our strategy is to psych out the other team before the game begins. She failed the test after psyching herself out, thinking how important it was for her future.
psych somebody out	to figure someone out; to know how someone thinks	It took me a while to psych out Fred, but I have him figured out now. Don't waste time trying to psych me out. I am an enigma.
psych somebody out	to get someone very excited; to cause someone to lose mental control	Wow! What you just said really psyched me out! He psyched out his friends.

psych somebody up	to get mentally ready for something	I have to psych up before the big game tonight. We want to psych up so we can play a good game.
psych somebody up	to get someone excited or mentally prepared for something	I psyched myself up to sing in front of all those people. The coach psyched up the team for the game.
psych somebody up	to make someone enthusiastic about something they will do	The children were so psyched up about about the trip that they could hardly sleep. Tim was psyching himself up to run the 26.2-mile course. Usage notes: sometimes used without up: Willa is really psyched, and hopefully that will get the others excited.
psych up	to prepare someone mentally	I PSYCHED myself UP for the exam.

pucker something up	to cause something to wrinkle up, especially the edges of the mouth, as when tasting something very sour	She puckered her lips up and pouted for a while. She puckered up her lips when she tasted the lemon juice.
pucker up	to tighten one's lips together into a circle as if to kiss	He puckered up and kissed her once, and then again.
pucker up	[for something] to shrink up and get wrinkled	The material puckered up when I washed it. The top edge of the drapes puckered up and I don't know how to straighten it out.

puff (away) at something	and puff (away) on something to smoke something, such as a cigar, cigarette, or pipe	Scott was puffing away at his pipe. She is always puffing on a cigarette.
puff (away) at something	to blow at or into something in puffs	She puffed away at the beach ball, blowing it up as fast as she could. Todd puffed at the fire until it grew larger.

puff along	[for an engine] to move along, putting out puffs of smoke or steam	The old engine puffed along, driving the small boat slowly up the river. The locomotive puffed along, not making very much headway up the hill.
puff along	[for someone] to run along, puffing to breathe	Sam puffed along, jogging on his morning route. As Wally puffed along, he thought again about going on a diet.

puff out	to swell out	The frog's throat puffed out, and we expected to hear a croak. The sail puffed out, and the boat began to move.
puff something out	to cause something to swell out or expand outward	The frog puffed its throat out and croaked. The frog puffed out its throat and croaked a mighty croak.

puff something/somebody up	to boost or promote someone or something	Judy puffed Nell up so much that Nell could not begin to live up to her reputation. Don't puff up your own accomplishments so much.
puff up	to swell up	Her finger puffed up and she thought she might have an infection. His eyelids had puffed up during the night.

pull (out) in front of something/somebody	to drive out into the road in front of someone or some vehicle	A car pulled out in front of me, and I almost hit it. The car pulled in front of a truck and there was a terrible wreck.

pull (something) off	to succeed in doing something (that seemed un doable, unrealistic, hard to do, etc.)	I can't believe she pulled it off. I was sure she was going to fail.
pull off	to manage to do something difficult or tricky	No-one thought that she would be able to do it, but she PULLED it OFF in the end.
pull off	to start moving (vehicles)	When the lights turned green, the car PULLED OFF.

pull ahead	to overtake, move in front	The lorry was going slowly but we managed to PULL AHEAD.

pull apart	to destroy an argument, theory, etc.	My tutor PULLED my essay APART.
pull apart	to make someone unhappy or upset	It PULLED me APART to see them arguing so much.
pull apart	to stop people or animals fighting	A fight broke out in the pub and it was hard to PULL the people involved APART.

pull away	when a vehicle moves from a place	The car PULLED AWAY from the lights at high speed.

pull back	to decide not to do something or not to be involved with it any longer	They PULLED BACK from the deal.
pull back	to move away from a place, especially when talking about soldiers	They have PULLED the troops BACK from the front line.
pull back	to move away from someone	She PULLED BACK when he tried to kiss her.
pull back	to score a goal or point when losing	They were two-nil down until five minutes before the end, when they PULLED BACK a goal.

pull down	to demolish	They PULLED the old cinema DOWN to build a new shopping mall.
pull down	to earn	He's PULLING DOWN a fortune.
pull down	to make someone depressed	Losing her job PULLED her DOWN.

pull for	to support	Who will you be PULLING FOR in the final?

pull in	to arrest or take someone to a police station for questioning	The police PULLED them IN after the trouble.
pull in	to attract	Their last tour PULLED IN millions of fans.
pull in	to stop a car by the side of the road	I PULLED IN to let the passengers out.
pull in	to drive in; To park	They pulled in to McDonald's to grab something to eat.
pull in	when a train arrives at a station	The train PULLED IN and we rushed to meet her as she got off.

pull on	to put clothes on	I PULLED ON a jumper when the sun went in.

pull out	to move into traffic	The traffic was so bad that it took me ages to PULL OUT.
pull out	to remove soldiers from an area	People want the government to PULL the troops OUT.
pull out	to start moving (train)	The train was PULLING OUT when I got there.
pull out	to withdraw	The project was going badly and they decided to PULL OUT.

pull over	to make a vehicle stop	The police PULLED the car OVER and tested the driver for alcohol.
pull over	to stop by the side of the road	The police PULLED the car OVER.
pull over	to drive a vehicle to the side of the road	Pull over by those bushes. I have to go to the bathroom.

pull through	to recover from and illness or problem	At one stage it looked as if she was going to die, but she PULLED THROUGH in the end.

pull to	to close a door or window that has been left open	Could you PULL the door TO, please?

pull together	to work together as a team	If we all PULL TOGETHER, we'll have it finished in no time.
pull yourself together	to become calm or regain control of your emotions	He was so angry that he couldn't PULL HIMSELF TOGETHER.

pull up	to inform someone that they are wrong	He PULLED me UP because I had got my facts wrong.
pull up	to slow and stop a car	The cab PULLED UP outside my house and I got out.

pulse through something/somebody	to flow or surge through someone or something	A jolt of electricity pulsed through Sam, causing him to jerk his hand away from the wire. They repaired the power lines and electricity began to pulse through the wires again.

pump somebody for something	to try to get information about something out of someone	The representative of the other company pumped Harry for information, but he refused to say anything. Are you trying to pump me for company secrets?

pump somebody up	to make someone very interested or enthusiastic	Our coach talks with every team member before a game, offering advice and trying to pump them up. Taylor's band came out and pumped up the crowd.
pump somebody up (for something)	to get someone, including oneself, mentally ready for something	The coach tried to pump the team up so they would win. The coach talked and talked to pump them up.
pump somebody/something up	to improve someone's or something's performance	Athletes can take drugs to pump themselves up, but there are huge risks involved. Everett hopes the new products will pump up corporate sales.
pump somebody/something up	to lift heavy objects for exercise in order to increase your strength or to improve your appearance	These days, both men and women pump iron for fitness.
pump something up	to exercise to make muscles get bigger and stronger	The body builder pumped her muscles up in preparation for the competition. She pumped up her muscles.
pump something up	to inflate something	Do you have something with which I can pump my basketball up? I pumped up the ball just an hour ago.
pump up something	to make something appear to be bigger or more successful than it is	Opponents charged that the state treasurer pumped up the state's financial figures. We pumped the number of flights up to 500 in our report so everyone would think the airport was really busy.

pump something into something/somebody	to try to force something, such as a gas, liquid, information, or money into someone or something	First you have to pump some air into the ball to make it hard. I pumped in the air. The hospital oxygen system pumped life-giving oxygen into Karen's lungs.

pump something out of something/somebody	to remove something from someone or something by force or suction	The doctors pumped the poison out of her stomach. They pumped out the poison.

pump something through something	to force something, such as a gas or fluid, through something	They pumped crude oil through this pipeline, all the way to the south shore. They pumped fresh air through the sewers while the workers were working inside.

punch in	to record one's arrival at one's workplace at a certain time	What time did you punch in? I punched in at the regular time.
punch in	to use a special machine to record the time you start working	If we punch in at 9 a.m., our actual starting time, the company automatically docks us 15 minutes.
punch in something	to enter information on a computer or other device by pressing keys	You punch in your code to get cash or your bank balance. Each door has a number pad, and for security you have to punch a number in to open the door.
punch somebody in something	to strike someone in some body part	Tony punched Nick in the side. Why didn't you punch that mean guy in the nose?
punch something in	to crush or smash something in	Who punched the cereal box in? Who punched in the cereal box?

punch out	to record that one has left one's workplace at a certain time	Why didn't you punch out when you left last night? I punched out at the regular time.
punch out	to use a special machine to record the time you stop working	Workers are kicking mud off their shoes and punching out at the construction trailer, weary after another 12-hour day.
punch out somebody/something	to hit someone or something	Barry lost his job for punching out his boss. He loved to hang out at local taverns and punch people out.
punch out something	to press buttons or keys on a computer or other device	In a panic, she grabbed her mobile phone and punched out 91You'd hand a page to the operator and write the next one while he was punching the first page out.
punch out something	to press something hard to remove it from something larger of which it is a part	The ceiling panel was punched out so workers could reach the wires above it. First you have to cut along the lines of each piece with a razor blade, and then you can punch it out.
punch somebody out	to overcome or beat someone by punching	He threatened to punch me out. The thug punched out the cop and ran down an alley.
punch something out of something	to press on something and make it pop out of something	She punched the perforated stickers out ofthe page and stuck them onto her schoolbooks. Jane punched out the stickers.

punch somebody on something	to strike someone on some body part, typically the shoulder (Not with the intention of causing harm)	Sally punched Frank on the shoulder just to show they were still friends. Tom punched Fred on the shoulder in a friendly way.

punch something down	to press something down	Punch this lever down and then try to place your telephone call. Punch down this lever and push this button.

punch something into something	to stick or press something into something	She punched her finger into the cake and ruined my lovely icing job. He finally punched a spoon into the cereal box to get it open.

punch something up	to register a figure on a cash register or calculator	Jake punched the total up, and the register drawer opened. He punched up the total too carelessly.

punctuate something with something	to add a particular punctuation mark to a piece of writing	You have punctuated this ad with too many exclamation points. This letter is punctuated with dashes to emphasize the key points.
punctuate something with something	to add emphasis to one's speaking by adding phrases, exclamations, or other devices	Her comments were punctuated with a few choice swear words. Tom punctuated his address with a few choice comments about politicians.

punish somebody by something	to discipline someone by doing something	The headmaster punished the children by forcing them to go to bed early. She punished herself by not eating.

punish somebody for somebody
punish somebody for something	to discipline someone for [doing] something	Someone will punish you for what you did. Please don't punish me for doing it. I'm sorry.

punish somebody with something	to use something to discipline someone	The captain punished the sailor with the lash. Sally threatened to punish Timmy with a spanking.

purchase something for somebody	to buy something for someone else; to buy something to give to someone	Tony purchased a number of toys for the children in the orphanage. Who did you purchase this gift for?

purge something away	to wash or flush something away	We will purge the rusty water away and then start up the pump again. We will have fresh, clean water again in no time. Laura purged away the rusty water.

purge something/somebody from something	to rid something of someone or something	We are going to purge the delinquent members from the list. The court purged her arrest from the records.
purge something/somebody of something/somebody	to rid someone or something of someone or something	The medicine is designed to purge the patient of the deadly toxin. We purged the list of the delinquent members.

purse something up	to bunch or pucker something up (Usually the lips)	When he tasted the lemon juice, he pursed his lips up and spat it out. Don pursed up his lips as if to spit it out.

push (oneself) off (on something)	[for someone in a boat] to apply pressure to something on the shore, thus propelling the boat and oneself away	The weekend sailor pushed himself off on the boat he had been moored to. We pushed off on the dock.
push off	something that you say in order to tell someone in a very angry way that you do not want or need something they could give you	Tell Mr Peabody he can take his job and shove it up his arse!
push off	to leave (As if one were pushing a boat away from a dock)	Well, it looks like it's time to push off. It's time to go. Let's shove off.
push off	to leave	The settlers who pushed off for the far west opened the land for farming.
push off	to measure a person's blood pressure	The doctor takes my blood pressure every time I am in the office. Bob takes his blood pressure at home every day.
push something/somebody off (of) something/somebody	to apply pressure to and force someone or something off someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	He continued to come at me, but I managed to push him off me and escape. I pushed off the attacker.

push in	to get in a queue without waiting	She just PUSHED IN the queue in front of me at the supermarket checkout.

push something/somebody (away) (from something/somebody)	to move or force someone or something away from someone or something	The police pushed the crowd away from the movie star. They pushed away the hecklers from the stage.

pussyfoot around	to go about timidly and cautiously (Alludes to a cat walking carefully)	Stop pussyfooting around! Get on with it! I wish that they would not pussyfoot around when there are tough decisions to be made.

put (oneself) in (somebody else's) place	to allow oneself to see or experience something from someone else's point of view	Put yourself in someone else's place, and see how it feels. I put myself in Tom's shoes and realized that I would have made exactly the same choice.

put (somebody) down	to make negative remarks about (someone)	He was a very mean boy who always put down everyone around him.

put (somebody) on	to try to trick someone (usually not in a serious/malicious way - often as a joke/for fun)	You're putting me on! He didn't really say that, did he?
put (the) pressure on somebody (to do something)	to make demands on someone; to try to get someone to do something	Please don't put pressure on me to go there! We put the pressure on him to get him to come, but he refused.
put face/front on something !
put on something !

put (somebody) up	to have someone as a guest in one's home; To allow someone to sleep in your home	It was really kind of your uncle to put me up for a week.

put (something) off	to delay doing (something) until a later time	Why do you keep putting this off? Just do it, and get it over with.

put under something/somebody !

put across	to communicate, convey a message	He found it difficult to PUT ACROSS what he wanted to say at the meeting.
put across	to express in an understandable way

put away	to put someone in prison	The judge PUT him AWAY for ten years for robbery.
put away	to put something back in the correct place	He PUT the dictionary BACK on the shelf after he'd finished the crossword.
put away something; put something away

put back	to put sth to its proper place; lay money aside for the future; move back the hands of a clock
put back	to rearrange something for a later time	The AGM has been PUT BACK until July the seventeenth.
put back something; put something back

put by	to save for the future; to save for later use	I try to PUT some money BY every month towards our summer holiday.

put down	to kill an animal because it's old, ill, etc.	He had his dog PUT DOWN because it was in a lot of pain from its tumours.
put down	to repress; write down; store (food)
put down	too stop holding (but withdraw support gently)	PUT the gun DOWN slowly and keep your hands where I can see them.
put down for	to commit to make a payment	PUT me DOWN FOR 50p per mile.
put down to	to give as a reason, attribute to
put down to	to give as an explanation	He didn't score many, but we can PUT that DOWN TO inexperience.
put something down	to put what you are holding on a surface or floor	You can put the groceries down on the kitchen counter.

put forward	to move forward the hands of a clock; suggest, propose

put in	to install	They had to PUT IN a whole new central heating system because the house was so cold.
put in for	to be a candidate for an election
put in for	to make a request	He PUT IN FOR a transfer to the new branch.

put off (until)	to postpone/arrange a later date	The concert's been PUT OFF until next month because the singer's got a throat infection. Can't you just put this off until tomorrow? The meeting was put off because of the strike. He put off going to business school.
put off	to stop liking something or somebody	I was really PUT OFF by the way he eats with his mouth open.
put off something; put something off
put something off	to postpone	We are putting off our trip until January because of the hurricane.

put on	to deceive, lie	I am not PUTTING you ON.
put on	to dress oneself with; tease; gain (weight)	Don't put your brother on. Don't you have some clothes to put on?
put on	to get fat	He's PUT ON a lot of weight since he gave up smoking.
put on	to start wearing	I PUT my coat ON before we went out.
put on	to turn on/switch on	Could you put on the light please?
put on something; put something on
put something on	to put clothing/accessories on your body	Don't forget to put on your new earrings for the party.
put something on ice	to delay something	Both projects have been put on ice until they can be paid for.
put something on the cuff	to buy something on credit; to add to one's credit balance	I'll take two of those, and please put them on the cuff. I'm sorry, Tom. We can't put anything more on the cuff.
put something on the map	to make something famous	The Macintosh operating system put Apple computers on the map.

put out	to broadcast	Several charities PUT OUT an appeal on TV for money for the victims of the flooding in Mozambique.
put out	to disturb or trouble someone	Would it be PUTTING you OUT greatly if I asked to change to another day.
put out	to extinguish (a cigarette, fire, etc.)	He PUT OUT his cigarette before entering the building. It took a long time to put out the fire.
put out	When speaking about CDs, etc. - to release	The Killers put out a new CD last month.
put out something; put something out
put something out	to extinguish	The neighbours put the fire out before the firemen arrived.

put to !

put together !
put something together	to assemble	I have to put the crib together before the baby arrives.
put together something; put something together

put some distance between (somebody and oneself or something)	to move or travel away from someone or something	Jill and I aren't getting along. I need to put some distance between her and me. I drove fast to put some distance between Max and me.

put somebody down	to insult, make someone feel stupid	The students put the substitute teacher down because his pants were too short.

put somebody over !

put something at !

put something into !

put through	to connect someone by phone	Could you PUT me THROUGH to extension 259 please?

put towards	to make a financial contribution	She PUT $250 TOWARDS the cost of the repairs and we had to pay the rest.

put up	to accommodate/give someone a bed	We can put you up if you'd like to come for the week-end.
put up	to allow someone to stay at your house for a night or a few days	She PUT me UP for the night because I'd missed the last bus and there were no night buses running.
put up	to build; raise (hand); provide accomodation for; offer for sale
put up	to increase prices, taxes, duties, etc.	The government has PUT tuition fees for undergraduate students UP again.
put up a (brave) front	to appear to be brave (even if one is not)	Mary is frightened, but she's putting up a brave front. If she weren't putting on a front, I'd be more frightened than l am.
put up with (somebody/something)	to tolerate, accept; run	I can't PUT UP WITH my neighbour's noise any longer; it's driving me mad. I don't think I can put up with three small children in the car. I just don't know why I even put up with you. I can't put up with his behavior any longer.

putt along	to move along rapidly, usually in a motorized vehicle ("Putt-putt" is the sound made to mimic engines, especially small engines)	The little car was putting along down the highway, when one of the tires went flat. We were putting along very smoothly all the way into town.

putter around	to do little things of little consequence; to do small tasks as found around the house	I spent all of Saturday just puttering around, not really getting anything done. I stayed home and puttered about during my vacation.

putz around	to fiddle around; to mess around	Stop some time puzzling over her. While I was puzzling over putzing around and get to work. Those guys spend most why she had slapped me, she did it again, of their time just putzing around.

puzzle out something	to consider or ponder	I can't puzzle out the mean - ;someone or something. Anne is a bit strange. I've spent some time puzzling over her. While I was puzzling over why she had slapped me, she did it again.
puzzle out something	to study something in order to understand it	The reader shouldn't have to puzzle out what the writer means.
puzzle something out	to figure something out	It took me a while to puzzle it out. I can't puzzle out the meaning of this argument.

puzzle over something	to give a lot of attention and thought to something	I puzzled over those words, trying to understand their hidden message.


quail at something/somebody	to show fear at someone or something; to shrink from someone or something	Todd quailed at the thought of what he had to do. The students quailed at the teacher who had been so hard on them in the past.

quail before something/somebody	to cower before or at the threat of someone or something	The students quailed before the angry principal. They quailed before the thought of punishment.

quake with something	to shake as with fear, terror, etc.	Alice was quaking with fear as the door slowly opened. Todd quaked with terror when he saw the vicious dog at the door.

qualify as something	to fulfill the requirements to be something	Tom qualified as a mechanic. I have been qualified as a mechanic since I was twenty.
qualify somebody as something	to cause someone to fulfill the requirements for something	Does this course qualify me as a stockbroker? She qualified herself as a realtor.

qualify for something	to meet the requirements for something	I'm sorry, you do not qualify for this job. I don't qualify for it.
qualify somebody for something	to enable someone to meet the requirements for something	His years with the company qualified him for pension. Does this ticket qualify me for the drawing?

quarrel (with somebody) (over something/somebody)	to have an argument with someone about someone or something	Todd quarreled with Carl over who was going to get the new secretary. They are quarreling over Sally.

quarrel about something

quarrel with somebody

quest for something/somebody	to seek after someone or something	Martin is off questing for a book on baroque organ building. She is questing for a better way to do it.

quibble (about something/somebody) (with somebody)	to be argumentative or contentious with someone about someone or something	Let's not quibble about it. Please don't quibble with your sister. No need to quibble over it.

quick on !

quiet (somebody or an animal) down	to make someone or an animal more quiet	Please go and quiet the children down. Try to quiet down the children. Please quiet that dog down.
quiet down	to be/ become more quiet; to become quiet; to become less noisy	We told the construction workers to quiet down. Please quiet down. Ask them to quiet down.

quieten down	to fall silent	The audience QUIETENED DOWN when the lights were switched off in the auditorium and the play was ready to begin.

quip about something/somebody	to joke about someone or something	The kids were quipping about the principal's hairpiece. It is rude to quip about an elderly person.

quit on somebody	[for one] to leave one's job, usually suddenly or unannounced	Wally, the park supervisor, quit on us at the last minute. My assistant quit on me.
quit on somebody	[for something] to quit while someone is using it	This stupid car quit on me. I hope this thing doesn't quit on me.

quit over something/somebody	to stop working or doing something because of someone or something; to quit because of a dispute over someone or something	Please don't quit over a silly thing like that. She quit over one of her fellow workers.

quiver with something	to experience eagerness or joy	I quivered with delight when I saw the dessert. Tom quivered with eagerness as the door opened.
quiver with something	to shake or shiver from something, such as cold, fear, anticipation, etc.	On seeing the bear, the dogs quivered with fear. Todd quivered with the cold.

quiz out (of something)	to earn permission to waive a college course by successful completion of a quiz or exam	Andrew was able to quiz out of calculus. After studying very hard, he quizzed out.

quiz somebody about something/somebody	to ask someone many questions about someone or something	The general quizzed the soldier about the incident. The officer quizzed her about Randy.

quiz somebody on something/somebody	to give someone a quiz or test over the subject of someone or something	The teacher quizzed the students on the chapter she had assigned for homework. I hope they quiz me on George Washington. I am prepared.

quote (something) from something/somebody	to recite something verbatim that someone else has said; to recite something verbatim from a printed source	May I quote from your letter of the tenth? Do you mind if I quote a line from Keats?


race against something/somebody	to attempt to win a trial of speed against someone or something	I don't want to race against Kelly. She is too fast. I had to race against time to get there before the baby got worse.

race around	to run or move around in a great hurry	Stop racing around and calm down! I have been racing around all morning, trying to get some things done.
race around (after something/somebody)	to rush here and there to find or fetch someone or something	I had to race around after Tom. I couldn't seem to catch up to him. I wish I could find the dog without having to race around all over the neighborhood.

race for something	to run or drive fast to get to something in a hurry	I raced for the door to see who was there. The children raced for the best seats in front of the television set.
race somebody for something	to compete against someone for a prize; to try to outrun someone to get to something first	I will race you for the grand prize. Ned raced his sister for the breakfast table every morning.

race into something	to run into a place	The children raced into the room and headed straight for their presents. Please don't race into the garden. You will trample the flowers.
race into something/somebody	to bump or crash into someone or something	The boys raced into the side of the car, and one of them was hurt. We raced into Mary and knocked her over.

race somebody to some place	to compete against someone to see who gets to a place first	I will race you to the door. Tim wanted to race me to the corner.

race through something	to perform some task very rapidly	They raced through their prayers and jumped into bed. The children raced through dinner, in a hurry to get outside to play.
race through something/somebody	to run or chase through a group of people or a place	The children raced through the group of ladies standing by the door. The dogs raced through the room, upsetting a lamp.

race to something/somebody	to run to someone or something	The girls raced to the front room. We all raced to Mary, who had the candy.

race up to something/somebody	to run to someone or something	Molly raced up to Paul and kissed him on the cheek. We raced up to the door and opened it cautiously.

race with something/somebody	to enter a speed contest with someone or something	I refuse to race with Carla. She is much too fast for me. I can't race with a horse!

rack out	to go to bed and to sleep	I'm really tired. I've got to go rack out for a while. I racked out until nearly noon.

rack something up	to accumulate something; to collect or acquire something	They all racked a lot of profits up. We racked up twenty points in the game last Saturday.
rack something up	to place something onto or into its rack	You had better rack the billiard balls up when you finish this game. Please rack up the balls.
rack something up	to wreck or damage something	Fred racked his new car up. He racked up his arm in the football game.
rack up	to acquire a lot of something	He's RACKED UP a number of convictions for speeding.
rack up something	to obtain a large amount of something	We racked up a lot of miles on our last vacation. Laura is starting to rack the money up now.
rack up something	to score a large number of points	Even though Miller racked up 28 points, the team still lost.

radiate from something/somebody	to spread out from someone or something, as with rays	Happiness radiated from Mary. She was so proud! The heat radiated from the wall next to the furnace room.

raffle something off	to give something away by a drawing or raffle	They will raffle a television set off. They are going to raffle off a television set this weekend at the school.

rag on somebody	to bother someone; to irritate someone; to criticize and humiliate someone	I wish you would stop ragging on me. I don't know why you are so annoyed at me. Stop raking on me!

rage against something/somebody	to vent one's anger about someone or something; to criticize someone or something severely	She exhausted herself raging against Judy. Mary is raging about the office politics again.

rage at something/somebody	to direct one's anger at someone or something	Why are you raging at me? What on earth did I do? Nothing can be solved by raging at the police department.

rage out of !

rage over something/somebody	to fight furiously over someone or something	The two managers both wanted to hire the same prospective employee. They raged over her for nearly an hour. The bean raged over that one fish for a long time.

rail against something/somebody	to complain vehemently about someone or something	Why are you railing against me? What did I do? Leonard is railing against the tax increase again.

rain (up)on something/somebody	[for rain, or something similar] to fall on someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The ashes from the erupting volcano rained on all the people fleeing the village. It rained on the fields until they were flooded.
rain on !

rain down on	to fall in large numbers	Bombs RAINED DOWN ON the city all night.
rain down on something/somebody	to fall or drop down on someone or something like rain	The ashes from the incinerator rained down on us, getting our clothes dirty. The hail rained down on us - ;some of it quite large.
rain something down (on something/somebody)	to pour something, such as criticism or praise, onto someone or something (Based on rain down on someone or something)	The employees rained criticism down on the personnel manager for the new policy on sick leave. The audience rained down compliments on the performers.

rain in on something/somebody	[for rain] to enter a window or other opening and get someone or something wet	Carol left the window open, and it rained in on her in the night. The storm rained in on my carpet!

rain something out	[for the weather] to spoil something by raining	Oh, the weather looks awful. I hope it doesn't rain the picnic out. It's starting to sprinkle now. Do you think it will rain out the ball game?

raise something/somebody to the surface (of something)	to bring someone or something up to the surface of a body of water	The pull of the inflatable life vest raised Tom to the surface of the water. The divers were able to raise the sunken ship to the surface.

rake in something	to receive something valuable in large amounts (Usage notes: often used about money)	University graduate students continued to rake in awards and honors this year. The fund-raiser raked in more than $23 million for the party. We were raking it in after the Times ran a review saying we were "the best".
rake in something	to talk about unpleasant things from the past that other people would prefer not to talk about (usually in continuous tenses)	There's no point in raking over the coals - all that happened twenty years ago, and there's nothing we can do about it now.

rake over !
rake somebody over !

rake something around	to spread something around with a rake	She raked the leaves around, spreading them over the flower beds as natural fertilizer. I need to rake around the soil and stir it up.

rake something in	to drawer pull something inward with a rake	Jane is raking in the leaves into a big pile.
rake something in	to take in a lot of something, usually money	Our candidate will rake votes in by the thousand. They were raking in money by the bushel.

rake something off (of) something	to remove something from something by raking (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Please rake the leaves off the lawn. Rake off the leaves.

rake something out of something	to clean something out of something by raking	You ought to rake the leaves out of the gutter so the water will flow. Please rake out the leaves.

rake something up	to clean something up by raking	Would you rake the yard up? I will rake up the yard.
rake something up	to find some unpleasant information	His opposition raked an old scandal up and made it public. That is ancient history. Why did you have to rake up that old story?
rake something up	to gather and clean up something with a rake	Would you please rake these leaves up before it rains? Please rake up the leaves.
rake up	to bring something back to people's attention	The press has RAKED UP some scandals from her past.

rally around something/somebody	to unite or assemble in support of someone or something	All the other workers rallied around Fred in his fight with management. They rallied around the principle that Fred stood for.

rally to something/somebody	to unite in support of someone or something	The students rallied to Betty, their elected president. We all rallied to the cause.

ram into something/somebody	to crash into someone or something	Mary accidentally rammed into a fence as she rode along. The car rammed into the tree and was totally wrecked.
ram something into something/somebody	to pound something into someone or something	He rammed his fist into Bill's side and shouted something angry at him. He rammed in his fist.

ram something down	to pack something down by pounding, as with a ram	The worker used a pole to ram the earth down and pack it tight. The worker rammed down the earth.

ram something through	to force something through a deliberative body, usually not allowing due consideration	They rammed the bill through the city council. The President was unable to ram the measure through Congress.
ram something through	to force something through something	He rammed his fist through the window, cutting himself in the process. Harry put the brick up to the window glass and rammed it through. Next time he would remember his key.
ram through something	to crash or pound through something	The car rammed through the back of the garage. I was afraid that the truck would ram through the fence.

ramble on	to wander about aimlessly (As with a traveler or a winding path)	The road rambled on through mile after mile of wilderness.
ramble on	[for a structure] to spread out over a large area, perhaps in a random way	This old house rambles on, way back into the woods.
ramble on (about something/somebody)	[for someone] to talk endlessly and aimlessly about someone or something (Based on ramble on)	I wish you wouldn't ramble on about your first husband all the time. Must you ramble on so?

ramp up	to increase price, speed or power of something	The company has RAMPED its prices UP because of higher oil prices.
ramp up something	to increase the amount or size of something	The city ramped up security at the bridge today. They're launching a new video game to ramp up their profits.

range (from something to something)	to vary from one thing to another	The winter weather ranges from bad to terrible in this part of the north. The appraisals of the property ranged from high to low.

rank above somebody	to outrank someone; to rank higher than someone	I think that I rank above you, so I will sit by the window. The boss ranks above everyone and demands that everyone recognize the fact.

rank among something	to be included in a particular group	In my opinion, Kelly ranks among the very best. Tom ranks among the most widely known of the contemporary writers.
rank somebody among something	to judge someone to be essentially equal to a specific group of people	I don't rank Kelly among the best drivers in the world. Our committee ranked Fred among the best of the current applicants.

rank as something	to have a particular rank; to serve in a particular rank	She ranks as a fine pianist in my book. Don ranks as the top economist of the day.
rank something/somebody as something	to assign a particular rank to someone or something	I have to rank Sally as number one. She's the best. Mary ranked the chocolate as the best she had ever eaten.

rank on somebody	to attack someone verbally; to gossip about someone	Please stop ranking on my family! Tom keeps ranking on Jennifer, and she is really mad about it.

rank somebody (out)	to annoy someone	He really ranks me out. What a pest!
rank somebody (out)	to chastise someone	She ranked him out for being a coward. I ranked out the whole gang, but good!

rank somebody with somebody	to judge someone to be equal with someone	Would you rank Tom with Donna? Fred ranked himself with Tom when it came to diving.
rank with something/somebody	to be equal to someone or something	Do you think Sarah ranks with Albert? No one ranks with Albert. The food at that restaurant ranks with that of the best places in New York.

rant (at somebody) about something/somebody	to talk in a loud, violent way, about someone or something	Anne ranted about the bad service she had received at the store. On the bus, someone was ranting at me about the end of the world.

rant against something/somebody	to rave and yell against someone or something	She spent most of the morning ranting against her mother-in-law. Leonard spent the entire morning ranting against the government.

rant and rave (about something/somebody)	to shout angrily and wildly about someone or something	Barbara rants and raves when her children don't obey her. Bob rants and raves about anything that displeases him.

rant at something/somebody	to rave and yell at someone or something	Stop ranting at me! The boss would never rant at the office staff.

rap at something	to tap on something to attract someone's attention	Who is that rapping at my door? Someone is rapping at the window, trying to get my attention. I will rap on her window and try to wake her.

rap somebody across the knuckles	to strike someone on the knuckles	As punishment, she rapped him across the knuckles. The teacher rapped the student on the knuckles.

rap something out (on something)	to tap out the rhythm of something on something	Try to rap the rhythm out on the table. He rapped out the rhythm on the table.

rap with somebody	to have a chat with someone or a group of people (Old)	Come in, sit down, and rap with me for a while. Let's get together and rap with one another sometime.

rasp something out	to carve or smooth something out with a rasp	You should use this tool to rasp the inside of the bowl out. Use sandpaper to make the inside smoother. Rasp out the inside carefully.

rat around	to waste time loafing around; to kick around (Collegiate)	I didn't do anything but rat around all summer. If kids don't have jobs, they just rat around.

rat on	to fail to keep a promise	He always RATS ON his promises.
rat on	to inform authorities about someone's wrongdoings	She RATTED ON her neighbours to the police because they were smuggling alcohol from France.
rat on	to be an informer; To reveal someone's secret	The teacher found out because you ratted on me!
rat on somebody	to report someone's bad behavior to someone in authority; to tattle on someone	John ratted on me, and I got in trouble. If he rats on me, I'll hit him!

rat out	to inform the authorities about someone	He RATTED me OUT to the police.
rat out	to quit; to fink out (on someone or something)	It's too late to rat out. He tried to rat out at the last minute.

rat through	to look for something hurriedly	I RATTED THROUGH the papers on my desk but couldn't find the letter.

ratchet up	to increase	The media are trying to RATCHET UP the pressure on the president.

rate (something/somebody) above (something/somebody else)	to judge someone to rank higher than someone else; to judge something to rank higher than something else	Do you rate Alice above Valerie? I rate chocolate ice cream above vanilla.

rate (something/somebody) below (something/somebody else)	to judge someone to rank lower than someone else; to judge something to rank lower than something else	I have to rate Carol below Donna in this regard. We all rate plain chocolate ice cream below rocky road ice cream.

rate (something/somebody) with (something/somebody else)	to judge someone or something to be equal to someone or something else	I rate Fred with Don. They are equally good. Vanilla is very nice, but I don't rate it with chocolate ice cream.

rate something at something	to assign a particular level of rating to something	I rate this brand at about a B-. The broker rated this stock at a buy.

rate something/somebody among something	to judge someone or something to be essentially equal to something	I rate Polly among the best of this year's class. We rate these contestants among the best ever.

rate something/somebody as something	to assign a particular rating to someone or something	I rate her as a number four. The judge rated my cake as second place.

ration something out (among somebody)	to give people limited shares of something, attempting to make it last as long as possible	The captain rationed the water out among all the crew, trying to make it last as long as possible. Jane rationed out the cookies among the kids.

rattle around in something	to live in a place that is much too big	We have been rattling around in this big old house for long enough. Let's move to a smaller place. I can't afford to rattle around in a three-story house any longer.
rattle around in something	to make a rattling noise inside something	What is rattling around in this package? There is something rattling around in my glove compartment.
rattle around in something	to ride about in a vehicle with a rattle	I am perfectly happy to rattle around in my ten-year-old car. Todd rattles around in his grandfather's old car.

rattle away	to chatter endlessly and aimlessly	The two old men sat there and rattled away at one another. Tom rattled away at Jane for a few minutes and then left the house.

rattle off	to quote figures rapidly	The media are trying to RATCHET UP the pressure on the president.
rattle off something	to say something quickly (Usage notes: often used when someone gives a list of facts or other related information from memory)	She rattled something off in French that I didn't understand. Walter could rattle off the statistics of players from the 1920s and 30s.
rattle off something	to stagger because of a blow	The boxer reeled under the blow to his chin. Fred reeled under the beating that Mike gave him.
rattle off something	to stagger under the weight of something	Tony reeled under the weight of the books. She knew she would reel under the heavy load.
rattle off something	to suffer because of a burden	Gary reeled under the responsibilities he had been given. I was just reeling under the burdens of my new job.
rattle something off	to recite something quickly and accurately	She can really reel song lyrics off. Listen to Mary rattle off those numbers.

rattle on (about something/somebody)	to talk endlessly about someone or something	Martin talked incessantly. He would rattle on about any topic whenever he could trap an unfortunate listener.

rave about something/somebody	to rage in anger about someone or something	Gale was raving about Sarah and what she did. Sarah raved and raved about Gale's insufferable rudeness.
rave about something/somebody	to sing the praises of someone or something	Even the harshest critic raved about Larry's stage success. Everyone was raving about your excellent performance.

rave over something/somebody	to recite praises for someone or something	The students were just raving over the new professor. Donald raved over the cake I baked. But he'll eat anything.

raze something to the ground	to tear down something, usually a building, to ground level	The council decided to raze the old city hall to the ground. This building is to be razed to the ground.

reach for !

reach out	to stretch your arm to get something	I REACHED OUT and caught the ball.
reach out for	to try to achieve something difficult	They are REACHING OUT FOR major economic reforms.
reach out to	to ask for help	I REACHED OUT TO you when I was in trouble and you were a great help.
reach out to	to offer help	Charities are REACHING OUT TO those who lost their homes in the floods.
reach out to	to try to communicate and establish good relations with people	The candidates are REACHING OUT TO the poor to get their votes.

react against something/somebody	to respond negatively to someone or something	Why did she react against me so strongly? There is no need to react against the plan with such force.
react against/to

react to something/somebody	to act in response to someone or something	You made some very good points. I would like to take some time to react to you. How did Mary react to the news?

read (too much) into (sth)	To over-analyze/exaggerate the importance of something that was said	Don't read too much into what she said. I'm sure she was just kidding.

read from !

read off	to read a list aloud for someone to write down	I READ OFF the figures and she wrote them down in her notebook.

read out	to read aloud rather than silently	The teacher READ OUT the names of the students who'd passed.

read something (from) cover to cover	to read something from the beginning to the end	The newspaper comes before breakfast and my husband reads it cover to cover while he's eating.

read up on	to research	I've been READING UP ON Japan as I'm going to live there next year.
read up on	to search out information on	I wanted to read up on camping in West Virginia before my trip.

readjust to something/somebody	to make a new adjustment to someone or something	Please make an attempt to readjust your work schedule for the next two weeks. I don't think I can readjust to this climate.

ready for something

ream somebody out	to scold someone severely	The teacher really reamed him out. The coach reamed out the whole team.
ream something out	to widen or clean an interior cavity or channel by scraping, grinding, or drilling	Ream the opening out so the flow will be faster. We had to ream out the pipes so the fuel would flow to the engine.

reap a/the harvest of something	to receive the good or bad results of past actions	Homelessness is rising. We are reaping the harvest of a lack of investment in housing and social services.
reap a/the harvest of something	to start some kind of trouble that grows much larger than you planned (Biblical)	our enemy has sown the wind by provoking this war, and they will reap the whirlwind when we vanquish them.

reap something from something	to gain something from something	The students reaped a lot of information from their interview with the police chief. I hope to reap some good advice from the discussion.
reap something from something	to harvest something from something	We reaped a fine harvest from our cornfields this year. They will reap nothing from their flooded fields.

reappoint somebody as something	to select or appoint someone to serve again in the same office	Are they going to reappoint Alan as the chairman again? Alan was reappointed as the head of the committee.

rear back	[for a horse] to pull back and up onto its hind legs in an effort to move backwards rapidly or throw a rider (See also rear up)	The animal reared back in terror. The horse reared back and almost threw its rider.
rear back	[for a person] to pull back and stand up or sit up straighter	He reared back in his chair and looked perturbed. Tom reared back in his chair, waiting for something else to happen.

reason against something	to argue against something, using reason	I can hardly be expected to reason against a silly argument like that! I reasoned against it, but they paid no attention to me.

reason something out	to figure something out; to plan a reasonable course of action	Now let's be calm and try to reason this out. Let us reason out our difficulties.

reason with somebody	to discuss something with someone, seeking a reasonable solution to a problem	Try to reason with Jill. If she won't listen, forget her. You cannot reason with someone who is so narrow-minded.

reassign somebody to something	to change someone's assignment to something else	I will reassign Jill to a different department. I was reassigned to the accounting department.

reassure somebody about something	to give someone confidence about something	Nancy reassured Betty about her promotion. Betty was reassured about her promotion.

reassure somebody of something	to promise or guarantee someone something	Kelly reassured her friend of her support in the election. Please reassure Tom of our continued support.

rebel against something/somebody	to resist and revolt against someone or something	Barbara rebelled against the teachers at the school. Most young people have to rebel against authority for a while.

rebel at something/somebody	to resist and defy someone or something	It is natural for teenagers to rebel at their parents. I feel as if I have to rebel at all these rules.

rebuke somebody for something	to reprimand someone for something	There is no need to rebuke me for a simple mistake like that. Sally was rebuked for overspending her budget.

recall somebody from something	to call someone back from something or some place	The president recalled our ambassador from the war-torn country. I was recalled from retirement to help out at the office.
recall something/somebody from something	to remember someone or something from some event or some place	I recall someone by that name from my days at the university. Mary recalled the appropriate fact from her history studies.

recall something to mind	to cause [someone] to remember something	The events of the day recall similar days in the past to mind. This book recalls a similar book published some years ago to mind.
recall something to somebody	to bring something to the mind of someone	Your comments recall another event to me - ;something that happened years ago. What you just said recalled an old saying to me.

recast something in something	to rebuild or redevelop something in a different form	She recast the sentence in the negative, hoping to make it less blunt. I will recast my request in different language.

recede from something	to pull back from something	The river receded from its banks during the dry season. I think that my hair is receding from my forehead.

receive somebody as something/somebody	to welcome and accept someone as someone or something	The king received the ambassador as an honored guest. They said they would receive their former guest as a welcome visitor.

receive somebody into something	to welcome someone into something, some place, or some organization	Everyone received the new member into the club with eager congratulations. We received them into our homes and fed them well.

receive somebody with !

receive something from somebody	to get and accept something from someone	Tony received a sweater from his grandfather for his birthday. Who did you receive this from?

receive something/somebody back	to get someone or something back	Martha received her husband back after his escapade. I sent a letter off with the wrong postage and received it back two weeks later.

reckon on	the minimum expected	Jeff says we can RECKON ON there being at least fifty people there tonight.

reckon somebody as something/somebody	to perceive someone as someone or something	I reckoned her as a more thoughtful individual than she turned out to be. Mary reckoned Scott as a constant irritation, and she was right on the button.

reckon something/somebody among something	to judge someone or something to belong among a select group	I reckon Donna among the best tennis pros in the country. We reckon this automobile among the most advanced in the world.

reckon something/somebody into something	to figure someone or something in; to include someone or something in one's calculations	I will reckon Jane into the total number of guests. I reckoned in a few too many people.

reckon with somebody/something	to consider the influence or power that someone or something has	He failed to reckon with the bureaucratic skills of the military. You have to reckon with these angry people who just don't like change of any kind.
reckon with something/somebody	to deal with someone or something; to cope with someone or something	I have to reckon with the troublesome Mr. Johnson this afternoon. Mary knew just exactly how she had to reckon with the bill collector.

reclaim something/somebody from something/somebody	to bring someone or something back from someone or something	The mother reclaimed Sally from her father, who had abducted her contrary to the divorce decree. Mary reclaimed the book from her brother's desk.

recoil at the sight (of something/somebody)	to flinch or cringe at the sight or thought of someone or something	Sally recoiled at the sight of Gerry, who had said something unspeakable. Mary recoiled at the very thought.

recoil from something/somebody	to draw back from someone or something	I recoiled from Sally when she told me what she had done. I recoiled from the horror and slammed the door.

recommend somebody as something	to suggest someone as something	Could you recommend Frank as a good carpenter? I can recommend Jane Smith as a good artist.

recommend somebody for something	to suggest someone for something	I would be very glad to recommend you for promotion. She recommended herself as the best choice.

recommend something/somebody to somebody	to suggest that someone choose someone or something	I would like to recommend Sally to you as a good prospect for membership on the committee. Could you recommend a good mechanic to me?

recompense somebody for something	to (re)pay someone for something	I am required to recompense Mrs. Wilson for her broken window. Can I recompense you for your expenses?

recon on

reconcile oneself to something	to grow to feel comfortable with an undesirable or challenging situation	John reconciled himself to living alone. Anne reconciled herself to having to wear glasses.

reconcile something with something	to bring something into harmony, accord, or balance with something	The accountants were not able to reconcile the expense claims with the receipts that had been turned in. I can't reconcile your story with those of the other witnesses.

reconstruct something from something	to rebuild something from something	I was not able to reconstruct the puzzle from the pieces that were left on the floor. Can you reconstruct the damaged part of the house from these materials?
reconstruct something from something	to recall and restate a story or the details of an event from something	Can you reconstruct the story from the fragments you have just heard? I cannot reconstruct the chain of events from memory.

record something from something	to make an audio or video recording of something from some source	Listen to this. I recorded it from a radio broadcast. From what TV show did you record this?

record something in something	to enter a record of something into something	I will record your appointment in my notebook. Jane recorded the memo in her computer.

record something on something	to make a record of something on the surface of something	Nancy recorded the appointment on the calendar that served as a blotter on the top of her desk. Please record this on your calendar.

recount something to somebody	to tell something to someone; to narrate a series of events, in order	Carl recounted the events of the day to his wife. The strange events were recounted by a number of people.

recoup something from something/somebody	to salvage something from someone or something	I hope I can recoup my expenses from the company this week. Mary intended to recoup her money from the investment.

recover from (something)	to recuperate from a disease	I hope I recover from this cough soon. She was very sick. But, she's recovering from her illness rapidly. She recovered from her cold soon enough to go on the trip.
recover from something/somebody	to get over an experience with someone or something	My great-uncle just left, and it will take a day or two to recover from him. I hope I recover from his visit soon.
recover something from something/somebody	to retrieve or salvage something from someone, something, or some place	The police recovered my purse from the thief who had taken it. Mary recovered her deposit from the failed bank.

recruit somebody for something	to seek and engage someone for something	Harry had to recruit a few people for the new jobs that opened up. We recruited three more people for the project.

recruit somebody from something	to convince someone to leave something and join one's own group	Phyllis recruited a new work team from the company she used to work for. We recruited a number of people from private industry.

recruit somebody into something	to seek out and induct someone into something	The recruitment office tried to recruit ten people a week into the army. The army recruited almost no one during the month of December.

recuperate from something	to recover from something; to be cured or to heal after something	I hope that you recuperate from your illness soon. Has she recuperated from her surgery yet?

redound on somebody	to have an effect on someone	The hot weather has redounded on all of us in a bad way. The problems created by your mistake have redounded on the entire company.

reduce (something) from (something to something)	to diminish something from one degree to a lower degree	I will reduce the fine from two hundred dollars to one hundred dollars. Mary reduced her demands from a large sum to a smaller one.

reduce somebody to silence	to cause someone to be silent	The rebuke reduced him to silence - ;at last. Mary was reduced to silence by Jane's comments.
reduce somebody to something	to force someone into a worse condition than usual	He had to sell his home to pay his legal fees and was reduced to parking cars for money. Sheila's cries reduced him to silence.
reduce somebody to something	to make someone cry	His classmates jeered, reducing him to tears.
reduce somebody to tears	to cause a person to cry through insults, frustration, and belittling	He scolded her so much that she was reduced to tears by the end of the meeting.

reduce something by something	to diminish something by a certain amount	I have to reduce your allowance by two dollars per week until you pay me back for the broken window. I will reduce the bill by a few dollars.

reek of something	to give a strong impression of something	The neighborhood reeks of poverty. The deal reeked of dishonesty. reek with something to stink with some smell. This place reeks with some horrible odor. Jane reeks with too much perfume.
reek of something	to have the stench or smell of something	This whole house reeks of onions! What did you cook? She reeks of a very strong perfume. She must have spilled it on herself.

reel back (from something)	to fall or stagger backwards, as from a blow	The boxer reeled back from the blow, stunned. Another blow to the midsection and he reeled back and fell.

reel in	to attract people, especially customers, to get them to do what you want them to	They hope the discounts will REEL people IN.
reel in	to catch a fish on a line and pull the line to land	He REELED IN a ten-pound salmon.
reel in somebody/something	to attract someone or something	Car dealers have to work harder to reel in customers when the economy is in bad shape.
reel in somebody/something	to pull someone or something toward you	We snagged the alligator near its tail and reeled it in. Rob took his hand, reeled him in, and gave him a big hug.

reel off	to quote statistics or facts rapidly	The minister REELED OFF a load of figures to support her position.
reel off	to score a lot of points or win a lot of games one after the other	They REELED OFF five victories and became the champions.
reel off something	to do something quickly and easily	In the American league, Boston has reeled off four straight victories.
reel off something	to say a list of things quickly and easily	He reeled off the names and ages of his seven grandchildren.

reel out	to unwind	I REELED OUT the hose and watered the lawn.

reel something in	to bring in something, such as a fish, by winding up the line on a reel	With great effort, she reeled the huge fish in. Hurry and reel in the fish!

refer somebody back to something/somebody	to suggest that someone go back to someone or something, such as the source	I referred the client back to the lawyer she had originally consulted. Tom referred the customer back to the manufacturer who had made the shoddy product.
refer something back to something/somebody	to send something back to someone or a group for action	Dr. Smith knows more about this kind of case, so I referred it back to him. They referred back all the bills.

refer somebody to somebody/something	to give someone the name of someone else or of an organization	My doctor referred me to a cancer specialist. She was referred to the Rare Books department of the public library. Usage notes: people are usually referred to someone or something that will help them, as in the examples.
refer somebody to somebody/something	to mention someone or something	Are you referring tome when you speak about a kind and helpful person? I was referring to the personnel department.
refer somebody to something	to bring someone's attention to something	I refer the reader to chapter 6.
refer somebody to something/somebody	to direct someone to someone or something; to send someone to someone or something	The front office referred me to you, and you are now referring me to someone else! They should have referred you to the personnel department.
refer something to somebody/something	to ask that a problem or idea be considered by someone or something else	The Senate voted to refer the issue to a subcommittee. All inquiries should be referred to the central office in Philadelphia.
refer to somebody/something	to mention or talk about someone or something	I think you're referring to a TV interview on a news program last week. Do you think he was referring to me?
refer to somebody/something as somebody/something	to call someone or something by a particular name	Some people referred to them as freedom fighters, but to me they were terrorists. The area south of 9th Street is referred to as the South Slope. His real name is Charles, but his friends refer to him as Chuck.
refer to something	to look at something for information or help	He referred to the Internet in his report. He referred to the dictionary for the correct spelling of the word.

reflect (back) (up)on something/somebody	to remember or think about someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	When I reflect back on the years I spent with my parents, I think I had a good childhood. I like to reflect on my great-grandmother.
reflect credit (up)on something/somebody	[for some act] to bring credit to someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Your efforts really reflect credit upon you. Mary's success really reflected credit on the quality of her education.
reflect on somebody/something	to influence the reputation of a person, group, or organization	The outstanding work of our scientists reflects well on the entire university. If someone on our staff does a bad job, it reflects badly on all of us. Usage notes: always used with an adverb and said of both good and bad influences on a reputation.
reflect on somebody/something	[of something] mirrored in something, such as a mirror, water, ice, etc.	His image was reflected in the mirror, giving him a good view of his sunburn. When the hermit's image was reflected in the pool, he was amazed.
reflect on somebody/something	[of something] shown in a result	The extra charges will be reflected in next month's bill. I do not understand all the charges that are reflected in my statement.
reflect on something	to think seriously about something	Her essay invites the reader to reflect on the importance of art in people's lives.

refrain from (something)	to hold back from doing something; to choose not to do something as planned	I refrained from saying anything. I wish you would refrain from shouting. Please refrain from hollering.

refresh somebody with something	to renew or revive someone with something	Here, let me refresh you with a cool glass of lemonade. After the game, Wally will probably refresh himself with a bottle of iced tea.

refund something to somebody	to return payment for something to someone	I insist that you refund the money to me at once. Her money was refunded to her by the store as soon as she asked for it.

refuse something to somebody	to deny someone permission to receive or use something	You wouldn't refuse water to me, would you? Nothing at all was refused to the new employee.
refuse to do something	to reject doing something; to reject a request to do something	I absolutely refuse to go there! We all refused to break the law.

regain something from something/somebody	to take back possession of one's property or right from someone or something	I intend to regain my money from Herb. The finance company regained the car from the delinquent buyer.

regale somebody with something	to present a great deal of something, such as lavish entertainment or fine food, to someone	They regaled their guests with food and music well into the night. The committee was regaled with tales of wrongdoing by the government.

regard something/somebody as something/somebody	to look upon someone or something as someone or something; to consider someone or something to be someone or something	I have always regarded you as my friend. The cult members regarded the stone idol as their dead leader.

regard something/somebody with something	to look upon someone or something with a certain attitude or with certain expectations	The child regarded the teacher with a questioning expression. The kitten regarded the fishbowl with great curiosity.

register for something	to sign up to participate in something	Have you registered for the class yet? She is registered for the same classes as I am.

register in something	to enter one's name on a list for something; to sign oneself up to belong to something	Are you going to register in the pie-eating contest? We registered in the drawing for a new car.
register somebody in something	to enter someone's name on a list in something	I will register you in the competition.
register somebody in something	to sign someone up to belong to something	I registered my cousin in the club.

register on something	[for an effect] to show on something, such as someone's face	Recognition registered on her face when she saw the photograph of Walter. The total of the votes registered on the large Scoreboard at the front of the hall.

register somebody as something	to record someone's name on a list of a category of people	I will register you as an independent voter. I am registered as a qualified financial advisor.

register somebody for something	to sign someone up to participate in something	Would you please register me for the workshop when you sign up? Excuse me. I have to go register myself for the contest.

register something with something/somebody	to record the existence of something with someone or something	Did you register your new stereo with the manufacturer? If you bring any packages into this store, please register them with the manager.
register with somebody	to sign up with someone	You will have to register with the lady at the front desk. I registered with the attendant when I came in.
register with somebody	[for something] to be realized or understood by someone	Suddenly, the import of what she had said registered with me. My name did not register with her, and I had to explain who I was.

regress to something	to go back to an earlier, probably simpler, state; to go back to a more primitive state	Bob claimed that Gerald's behavior was regressing to that of a three-year-old. I tend to regress to my college ways when I am out with the guys.

rehearse for something	to practice for something	We will rehearse for the graduation exercises on Saturday morning. We rehearsed for the play all weekend.

reimburse somebody for something	to repay someone for making a purchase, such as a business expense	I will reimburse you for whatever it cost you. The treasurer reimbursed himself for his expenses.

reimburse something to somebody	to repay money to someone, such as a business expense	I will reimburse the money to you. Don't worry. The full cost was reimbursed to me.

rein back on something/somebody	to control or diminish the intensity of someone or something	The manager was urged to rein back on her assigning overtime. She reined back on expenses and demanded that others do likewise.

rein in	to control someone or something to stop them causing more trouble	They had to REIN the minister IN after her dreadful performance on TV.
rein in somebody/something	to control someone or something	We should rein in our spending, balance our budget, and stop borrowing. Critics say they have run the company as a personal kingdom, pocketing the profits and ignoring anyone who tried to rein them in.
rein something/somebody in	to bring someone or something under control; to slow down someone or something	Fred is getting out of hand. The boss undertook to rein him in a bit. The boss is trying to rein in Jane's enthusiasm.

rein something up	to bring something, usually a horse, to a stop	She reined her horse up and stopped for a chat. Rein up your horse and stop for a while.

reinforce something/somebody with something	to strengthen someone or something with something	The general reinforced his troops with volunteers fresh from basic training. I had to reinforce the garage roof with new boards.

reinstate somebody as something	to put someone back as a certain officeholder	The city council agreed to reinstate Mr. Wilson as alderman. Fred was reinstated as the court clerk.

reinstate somebody in something	to put someone back into a certain office or position	If you will pay your dues, we will reinstate you in the organization. Fred was reinstated in office.

reissue something to somebody	to release or distribute to someone something that has been distributed before	I plan to reissue the check to you next week. The check was reissued to Mary the very next day.

reject something/somebody out of hand	to reject someone or something without any thought or study	Fred is so contrary that they rejected him out of hand when his name came up for a committee position.

rejoice at something	to celebrate or revel about something	Everyone rejoiced at the lucky events that had saved them. We all rejoiced at the outcome of the election.

rejoice in something/somebody	to take great joy at someone or something	I am in love and I rejoice in my beloved! Roger rejoices in a good night's sleep.

rejoice over something	to celebrate because of something	Everyone rejoiced over their good fortune. What happened to us next was nothing to rejoice over.

relapse into something	to experience a return to a worse condition	Valerie relapsed into a coma in the afternoon. Mary relapsed into her depression after a brief period of normalcy.

relate something to somebody	to tell something to someone; to narrate something to someone	Very slowly, she related the events of the past week to her parents. I have an interesting story to relate to you.
relate something to something	to associate something to something	I relate this particular problem to the failure of the company to provide proper training. This point is related to what I just told you.
relate to somebody	to understand and feel sympathy for someone identify with somebody	The kids need a teacher who can relate to them.
relate to somebody	to understand, accept, or feel kinship with someone or something	He relates to people well. I really don't relate to your thinking at all.
relate to (something)	to feel that you understand a situation identify with something	Michael related the economic decline to oil prices. You're looking for a job? I can relate to that!

relax into something	to sit or lie down in something, relaxing	I want to go home and relax into my easy chair. I relaxed into the reclining chair and was asleep in a few moments.
relax into something	[for something that is tense] to assume a more relaxed shape or condition	His cramped muscle finally relaxed into a soft mass of tissue. As her tight neck relaxed into softness, her face brightened.

relay something to somebody	to pass something on to someone	Can you relay this to Frank, who is way down the line? The message was relayed to Frank, who was at the end of the line.

release somebody to somebody	to discharge or distribute someone to someone	The judge released the defendant to his mother. Don was released by the police to his father, who was more than a little bit angry.

release something/somebody from something	to liberate or let someone or something go from something	The police officer released George from the handcuffs. I released all the dogs from the city dog pound.

relegate somebody to something/somebody	to assign someone to someone or something (Often refers to something unimportant or demeaning)	They relegated the old man to a bed in the corner. The former vice president was relegated to the position of manager of special projects.

relieve somebody of something	to lessen someone's responsibilities	I will relieve you of some of the responsibility you have carried for so long. Let me relieve you of that job. You have enough to do.
relieve somebody of something	to unburden someone of something	Here, let me relieve you of that heavy box. At last, he could relieve himself of the problem.

relinquish something over somebody	to release the hold on or control of someone	She refused to relinquish control over the operations of the front office. Mary was ordered to relinquish her hold over the children for a month each year.

relinquish something to something/somebody	to surrender something to someone or something	Todd refused to relinquish his authority to anyone. I finally relinquished the car to the bank.

relocate something/somebody in something	to reposition or move someone or something in or at something	I will have to relocate you in a different office. Can I relocate the copy machine in the other room?

rely (up)on (something/somebody)	to depend on someone or something; to trust in someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Can we rely on you in this case? I know I can rely upon you to do a good job. Can we rely on this old car to get us there?
rely on	to count on/depend on/trust	Don't worry. You can rely on me. I can keep a secret. I rely on my family for money. We relied on the Internet for our research papers. We rely on their assisting us.
rely on something/somebody for something

remain at !

remain away (from something/somebody)	to stay away from someone or something	I must ask you to remain away from my daughter. I cannot remain away any longer. I must be with her.

remain behind	to stay at a place even when others have left	Can't I go too? Do I have to remain behind? I will remain behind for a day or two.

remain down	to stay down; to keep down	I asked them to remain down until the shooting stopped. Please remain down with me so no one will see us.

remain in (something)	to stay in an organization as a member	He remained in the Boy Scouts until he was sixteen. I will remain in the teacher's union for many years.
remain in (something)	to stay within something	Please remain in the house today. It is too cold to go out. You should remain in because the weather is bad.

remain on	and remain on something to continue to be on something; to continue to serve on a body	Will you remain on the board of directors for another year? I will remain on this committee as long as I am needed.
remain on	to continue to stay in one place (The on is an adverb, not a preposition)	Everyone else left, but I decided to remain on there. I remained on for a while during the time they were training my replacement.
remain on	to continue to take a particular medicine	How long should I stay on these pills? I want you to remain on this medication until you run out.

remain together	to stay close together; to stay in association	We will have to remain together while we are on this tour. It is very easy to get lost in this town. The two boys remained together throughout college.

remain under something	to continue to stay beneath the surface of something	Please remain under the umbrella so you don't get wet. A lot of people decided to leave the shelter, but I remained under it.

remain up	to stay awake and out of bed	I remained up throughout most of the night. I cannot remain up much longer.

remand somebody (in)to the custody of somebody	to order someone placed into the custody of someone	The court remanded the prisoner into the custody of the sheriff. The judge remanded Mary to the custody of the sheriff. The judge remanded Gerald over to his father.

remark (up)on something/somebody	to comment on someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	She remarked upon his tardiness and then continued the lesson. There is no need to remark on me or anything I do or don't do.

remember somebody to somebody	to carry the greetings of someone to someone else	Please remember all of us to your uncle. I will remember you to my brother, who asks of you often.

remind (somebody) of (something)
remind somebody of (something/somebody)	to bring a memory of someone or something into someone's mind	Michael reminds me of my brother. You remind me of my brother. The happy song reminded us of our cabin on the lake.

remind somebody about something/somebody	to cause someone to remember someone or something	Will you please remind me about Fred? He's coming to visit next week. I will remind you about your appointments for today.

reminisce about something/somebody	to think about one's memories of someone or something; to discuss or share memories of someone or something	They were reminiscing about their old friends. The old men sat and reminisced about the good old days.

reminisce with somebody	to share memories with someone	I love to reminisce with my sister about old times. Todd was reminiscing with Alice about the good old days.

remit something to something/somebody	to send something, especially money, to someone or a group	Please remit your rent to your landlady immediately. You are requested to remit your loan payment to the bank on time this month.

remonstrate (with somebody) (about something/somebody)	to protest to someone about someone or something	After remonstrating with the manager about the price for a while, Vernon left quietly. I spent an hour remonstrating about Ted with Alice.

remove somebody from something	to take someone out of an office or position	The county board removed the sheriff from office. She removed herself from office voluntarily.
remove something/somebody from something/somebody	to take someone or something away from someone or something	The authorities removed the child from his mother. They removed the dog from the kennel.

remunerate somebody for something	to pay someone for something	Of course, I will remunerate you for your time. She was promptly remunerated for the hours she spent working on the project.
remunerate somebody for something	to repay someone for money spent	I will remunerate you for the cost of the book if you will give me the receipt. Please remunerate me for the charges as soon as possible.

rend something from something/somebody	to tear something from someone or something (The past tense and past participle are rent)	Harry rent the burning clothing from the man who had just fled from the burning building. I will rend these dirty old clothes from my body and shower.

rend something into something	to rip or tear something into something (The past tense and past participle are rent)	The tailor rent the garment into shreds in his anger. The garment was rent into bits and pieces by the machine.

render something down	to cook the fat out of something	Polly rendered the chicken fat down to a bit of golden grease that she would use in cooking a special dish. Jane rendered down the fat for use later. The cook rendered it down.
render something down	to reduce or simplify something to its essentials	Let's render this problem down to the considerations that are important to us. Can't we render down this matter into its essentials? Not all of this is important. Let's render it down.

render something in(to) something	to translate something into something	Now, see if you can render this passage in French. Are you able to render this into German?

render something to something/somebody	to give something to someone or a group	You must render your taxes to the government. I will render my money to the tax collector. I had to render up all my earnings.

renege on something	to go back on one's promise or commitment	I am mad at you because you reneged on your promise! I did not renege on what I promised.

renounce somebody for something	to repudiate someone for doing something	She renounced her brother for his political orientation. Jane was renounced for her illegal activities.

rent something (out) (to somebody)	to sell temporary rights for the use of something to someone	I rented the back room out to a nice young student. We rented the back room to someone. For how long did you rent it out? Let's rent out the garage.

repair to some place	to move oneself to some place	I will repair to my room until the crisis is over. She repaired to a safe place for the duration of the storm.

repatriate somebody to some place	to restore one to one's country of origin	He asked that they repatriate him to the land of his birth. She was repatriated to her homeland.

repay somebody by something	to recompense someone by doing something; to settle a debt with someone by doing something	I will repay you by cutting your lawn free for a year. How's that? Can I repay you by taking you to dinner?

repay somebody for something	to remunerate someone for doing something	I refused to repay him for his excessive expenses. She was repaid for her kindness many times over.

repay somebody with something	to remunerate someone with something	The farmer's wife repaid the plumbers with fresh eggs and cream. We were repaid with fresh eggs from the farm.

repel somebody from something	to push someone back from something; to fight someone off from something	The army repelled the attackers from the entrance to the city. The attacking army was repelled from the city.

repent of

replace something/somebody by something/somebody	to remove someone or something and add someone or something in place of the first	The manager replaced two workers by a machine. Walter replaced his old lawn mower with a newer one.

replenish something with something	to rebuild the supply of something with more of it	I will replenish the checking account with more money at the end of the month. Can I replenish your glass with more iced tea?

reply to (something/somebody)	to give a response to someone or something	I replied to her already. There is no reason to do it again. I will reply to her letter as soon as I can.

report (up)on something/somebody	to present an explanation on someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The detective visited Mrs. Jones to report upon Mr. Jones. I want to report on the events of the day. Do you have time to listen?

report about something/somebody	to deliver information about someone or something	Isn't it time to report about Frank and how well he is doing? I want to report about the accident.

report back	to go back to someone or something and present oneself	Report back to me at once! I'll report back immediately.
report back	to present information or an explanation to someone or some group	Please report back to me when you have the proper information. I'll report back as soon as I have all the information.

report for something	to present oneself for something	Please report for duty on Monday morning at eight o'clock sharp. I can't report for my examination at the time we agreed upon.

report in	to present oneself; to make one's presence known	Please report in when you get back in town. He reported in and his name was taken off the absentee list.

report something to somebody	to present a body of information to someone	Please report the results to the supervisor. The event was reported to the proper person.
report to something/somebody	to be supervised by someone or an office	When you start work here, you will report to Mrs. Franklin. I report directly to the home office.
report to something/somebody	to present oneself to someone or an office	You must report to me for duty at noon. They told me to report to this office at this time.
report to something/somebody	to return to someone or an office and make a report	Please report to me when you have the results. If you have any more to say, please report to headquarters and tell the whole story.

repose (up)on something	to lie on something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	I will repose upon these cushions until my bathwater has been drawn. Dawn reposed on the sofa for over an hour.

repose in something	to lie stretched out in a particular state, such as death or slumber	She lay on the cot, reposed in slumber, waiting for Prince Charming to arrive. The ruler reposed in death on public view for two days.
repose in something	to lie stretched out in something, such as a bed	I think I would like to repose in my own bed for an hour or two before I begin my journey. Tom reposed in a comfortable chair for the rest of the evening.
repose in something	[for something] to exist in something or be part of the essence of something	Much of our cultural heritage reposes in our literature. Considerable important thinking reposes in folktales and myths.

represent somebody in something	to act as one's advocate or agent in business or legal proceedings	My lawyer represented me in court. His attorney will represent him in all his dealings with the publishing company.

represent something to somebody	to exemplify something to someone	What does this behavior represent to you? This represents a lapse in manners to me.
represent something to somebody	to explain a matter to someone	He represented the matter to me in a much more charitable light. I did not represent it properly to you.

represent something/somebody as something	to depict or portray someone or something as something; to think of someone or something as something	I don't think you should represent me as so perfect. After all, I'm human. The artist represented my puppy as a playful animal.

reprimand somebody for something	to scold someone for something; to admonish someone for something	There is no need to reprimand me for a simple accident! Mary was reprimanded for being late.

reproach somebody for something	to rebuke or censure someone for something	She reproached ferry for gambling away all their money. She reproached herself mercilessly for her failure.

reproduce something from something	to make a copy of something from something else	I think we can reproduce the picture from the copy that you have there. We don't need the negative. Can you reproduce a good copy from this old print?

reprove somebody for something	to criticize or censure someone for something	The boss reproved all the employees for their use of the telephones for personal calls. We were all reproved for being late too often.

repulse something/somebody from something	to resist or repel someone or something from something	The royal guard repulsed the rebels from the palace grounds. Only the use of guns could repulse the starving wolves from the area around the cabin.

request somebody to do something	to ask someone to do something	I am going to request you to turn your radio down. Mary was requested to arrive a few minutes early.

request something from somebody	to call for something from someone	I will request an explanation from the employee in question. A full report was requested from each person present.

request something of somebody	to call for someone to give or do something	I have to request a favor of you. Can I request anything more of him?

require something from somebody	to demand something from someone	The telephone company required a deposit from John and Martha before they would install a telephone. They required some help from us.

require something of somebody	to expect or demand someone to give or do something	I require absolute loyalty of my employees. What is required of me in this job?

requisition something for something/somebody	to present an order or formal request for something for someone or some purpose	I will have to requisition a desk for you. You can't work an eight-hour day at a table. We will requisition catering for the office party.

requisition something from something/somebody	to send an order or formal request to someone or something for something	The general requisitioned food and bedding from the supply depot. We requisitioned a new bookcase from central supply.

rescue (somebody) from (something)
rescue from
rescue something/somebody from something/somebody	to save or liberate someone or something from someone or something	I hoped that someone would come and rescue me from this boring person. Nothing can rescue us from the ravages of time.

resemble something/somebody in something	to look or seem like someone or something	You resemble my Uncle Herman in the way you walk. This resembles vanilla ice cream in flavor, but not in consistency.

reside in	some place to dwell in some place	I reside in a small apartment in the center of town. The Wilsons resided in a large house on a hill.
reside in something/somebody	to be a property or characteristic of someone or something	I never knew such anger could reside in such a calm person. The finest acoustics that can be found in the world reside in this hall.

resign from
resign from something	to make a written statement that removes one from an office or position of employment	Andy resigned from the fraternity. I will not resign from my job. You will have to fire me.

resonate with somebody	[for an idea, issue, or concept] to appeal to someone or cause someone to relate to it	The concept of wearing worn-looking clothing seems to resonate with young people. Your notion just doesn't resonate with the public in general.

resort to something	to turn to something that is not the first choice	I hope they don't resort to a lawsuit to accomplish their goals. She will resort to anything to get her way.

resound through(out) something	to roar, noisily, through a space or an enclosed area	An explosion resounded through the busy train station. An explosion resounded throughout the busy train station.

resound with something	[for something, such as the air or a place] to be filled with sound or sounds	The hall resounded with the sounds of the orchestra. The house resounded with the laughter of children.

respect somebody as something	to admire someone as something	I respect you as a friend and supervisor. We respected them all as colleagues and coworkers.

respect somebody for something	to admire someone for something	I really respect George for his courage. Mary respected the company for its fine products.

respond to (somebody/something)
respond to something/somebody	to answer someone or something	Would you please respond to me? When are you going to respond to my letter?
respond to something/somebody	to react to someone or something	You have heard his presentation. How would you respond to him? I need you to respond to the points in the report by the end of the day. The police responded right away to the riot call.

responsible for something/somebody

restore something to somebody	to give something back to someone; to cause something to be returned to someone	I will restore the man's wallet to him after we lock the thief up. His wallet was restored to him by a police officer.
restore something to something	to bring something to its original state	The state restored the park to its original condition. The government forced the mining company to restore the area to its original state.

restrain somebody from something	to prevent someone from doing something	I had to restrain her from hurting herself. I was unable to restrain myself from giggling at the wisecrack.

restrict something/somebody to something/somebody	to limit someone or something to someone or something; to confine someone or something to someone or something (The first something may typically refer to a choice or selection)	When choosing team members, we are restricting them to people they already know. We restricted the choices to Bill, Bob, or Ted.

result from something	to emerge from something; to be the outcome of something	It will be interesting to see what results from your efforts. Nothing resulted from all that work.

result in
result in something	to achieve something; to bring about something; to cause something to happen	I hope that this will result in the police finding your car. All my effort resulted in nothing at all.

resurrect something/somebody from something	to restore someone or something from some state to its formal state	We decided to resurrect Toby from the ranks of the retired. I resurrected my old uniform from its tattered and wrinkled state.

retail at something	to sell at a retail price of something	This model normally retails at a much higher price. What does a product like this usually retail at?

retail for something	to sell for a retail price of an amount of money	This item retails for less than ten dollars. How much does this retail for?

retail something to somebody	to sell something to someone at a retail price	I can retail this merchandise at ninety percent of the price of my competitor. We are not allowed to retail this to anyone in the state of Maine.

retain something over something/somebody	to keep or maintain something, such as power or control, over someone or something	Tony found a way to retain control over Fred. I wish to retain veto power over the committee.

retaliate against something/somebody	to take revenge against someone or something	The striking workers will retaliate against the company with a protest march. The students retaliated against the administration.

retire (in)to something	to quit working and move into something or some place	Sam and Ella retired into a Florida condo. Joe did not want to retire to Florida.
retire to	some place to quit working permanently and move to a particular location	When I quit working, I want to retire to Florida. We will retire to our place in the country.

retire from
retire from something	to withdraw from something (Usually to terminate a working career permanently)	I retired from the company early. When do you intend to retire from your job?
retire something/somebody from something	to take someone or something out of service permanently	The company retired the vice president from the job and gave it to someone else. It is time to retire my automobile from service.

retire on something	to quit working and live on something or a particular amount of money	I already have enough money to retire on. I cannot retire on a sum like that!

retool for something	to prepare oneself for a different kind of work	He decided to retool for a new job in the computer industry. I am too old to retool for a job like this.
retool for something	to set up with new or altered tools for a different kind of production	The factory was closed down so they could retool for next year's model. How soon can we retool for this new line ofproducts?
retool something for something	to set up a factory with new or altered tools for a different kind of production	The manager decided to retool the factory for greater efficiency. We will retool the plant for next year's models.

retrieve something from somebody	to get something back from someone	I hope I can retrieve my book from the person who borrowed it. We were not able to retrieve the lawn mower from Fred before he moved away and took it with him.
retrieve something/somebody from some place	to recover and bring back someone or something from some place	The mother hurried to the school and retrieved her child from the classroom. I retrieved my cat from the well into which she had fallen.

return from	some place to come back from some place	I just returned from a research trip in the Amazon basin. When will they return from their vacation?
return something for something	to give or payback something for something	The clerk returned the correct change for a twenty-dollar bill. I hope that the product returns good value for my money.

return something/somebody to somebody	to give someone or something back to someone	Please return my tools to me. Would you return my book to me soon?
return to some place	to go or come back to some place	When do you plan to return to your home? I will return there when I have finished here.

reunite something/somebody with something/somebody	to bring someone or something together with someone or something	Mary was pleased to reunite Sally with her sister. I reunited the lost cat with its owner.

rev something up	to make an idling engine run very fast, in short bursts of power	Hey! Stop revving it up! I wish that Tom wouldn't sit out in front of our house in his car and rev up his engine.
rev up	to increase in amount or activity	Production revved up after the strike. We're hoping business will rev up soon.

revel in something	to get great pleasure from a situation or an activity	She usually got the jobs she wanted, and she reveled in them.
revel in something	to rejoice or celebrate about something	All the children reveled in the fresh, warm, spring air. Tony reveled in his success.

revenge oneself (up)on something/somebody	to retaliate against someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	There is no need for you to revenge yourself upon Walter. It was an accident. She did not know how she would revenge herself on Joe, but she knew she would.

reverberate through something	[for sound] to roll through or pass through a space	The thunder reverberated through the valley. The sound of the organ reverberated through the church.
reverberate throughout something	[for sound] to roll about and fill a space	The thunder reverberated throughout the valley. The noise of chairs scraping the floor reverberated throughout the room.

reverberate with something	to echo or resound with something	The hall reverberated with the rich basso voice of Walter Rogers. The church reverberated with the roar of the pipe organ.

revere something/somebody for something	to admire or venerate someone or something for something	I will always revere my dear aunt for her devotion to all of us. We have always revered his lovely gift for our little kindness.

revert to !

review for something	to study material again for something, such as an examination	I need some time to review for the examination. Have you had enough time to review for your speech?

revolt against something/somebody	to rebel or rise against someone or something	The citizens were gathering arms, preparing to revolt against the government.

revolted at something/somebody	sickened by someone or something	I was revolted at Frank and his behavior. We were all revolted at the scene of the bloody highway accident.

revolve around something/somebody	to spin or move around someone or something	Do you think that the whole world revolves around you? The moon revolves about the earth.
revolve around something/somebody	[for people or things] to center upon someone or something or to be primarily concerned with someone or something	The way all of this is going to turn out revolves around Bob. The success of the picnic revolves around the weather.

reward somebody for something	to give someone a prize or a bonus for doing something	I would like to reward you for your honesty. She wanted to reward herself for her hard work, so she treated herself to a massage.

reward somebody with something	to honor someone with a gift of something	She rewarded the helpful child with a chocolate chip cookie. He rewarded himself with a night on the town.

rhyme something with something	[for someone] to make one word rhyme with another word	I need to rhyme tree with some other word. Any suggestions? Can I rhyme good with food?
rhyme with something	[for a word] to rhyme with another word	You can't use house in that line of the poem, because it doesn't rhyme with mice. The last word in your poem doesn't rhyme with any other word in the poem!

ricochet off something	[for some rapidly moving object, such as a bullet] to bounce off something at an angle	The bullet ricocheted off the wall and struck the gunman. Bullets were ricocheting off the walls from all angles.

rid (oneself or something) of (something/somebody)	to free oneself or something of someone or something; to deliver oneself or something from someone or something	The boys were not clever enough to rid themselves of Tom's little sister. Will we ever be able to rid this house of spiders?

ride of something !

ride on somebody/something !
ride on	to depend on	His reputation is RIDING ON this deal working out.

ride off	to go away on a bike, horse, etc.	She got on her motorbike and RODE OFF.

ride out	to survive a difficult time	They managed to RIDE OUT the recession.
ride out/weather the storm	to continue to exist and not be harmed during a very difficult period	When smaller companies were going bankrupt, the big companies with wider interests managed to ride out the storm. It remains to be seen if the President will weather the political storm caused by his remarks.

ride up	to move higher on the body (of clothes)	Her skirt RODE UP when she sat down.

rig something up	to prepare something, perhaps on short notice or without the proper materials	We don't have what's needed to make the kind of circuit you have described, but I think we can rig something up anyway. We will rig up whatever you need.

rile somebody up	to get someone excited and angry	He yelled at them and riled them up. They left quite angry. He riles up everyone he talks to.

ring back	to return a phone call	I phoned and left a message this morning but she still hasn't RUNG me BACK.

ring hollow	if something someone says rings hollow, it does not sound true or sincere	The claims they made two years ago that peace was just around the corner ring very hollow now.
ring hollow	to cause an organization, system, or activity to fail or end	A knell is the sound of a bell being rung slowly to tell people that someone has died (often + for). The new superstore will sound the death knell for hundreds of small independent shops (sometimes + of). The closure of the local car factory tolled the death knell of the town.
ring hollow	to seem dishonest, not true, or wrong	The Rockets sounded like a defeated team - they talked of the possibility of a comeback, but the words rang hollow. Her characters and situations all ring false and her movie just seems painful and pointless. Usage notes: often used in the forms a hollow ring or a false ring (a dishonest or not sincere quality): Her story about the hostages is certainly exciting, but it has a hollow ring.

ring off	finish a phone conversation	Dave RANG OFF guiltily when he saw his boss coming.

ring down !

ring up	to telephone	Helen RANG me UP earlier.

rinse out	To rinse the inside of	Rinse out that kettle before you fill it with water.
rinse something down (with something)	to wash something down one's throat with a liquid; to follow something that one has eaten with a drink to aid its going down	Alice rinsed the cheeseburger down with a milkshake. She rinsed down the sandwich with a drink.
rinse something out	to clean cloth or clothing partially by immersing it in water and squeezing it out	Can you please rinse this rag out? It's all dirty. Please rinse out your clothes to make sure there is no soap left in them.
rinse something out	to clean the inside of a container partially by flushing it out with water	Rinse the bottle out and throw it away. Rinse out the bottle and throw it away.
rinse something out	to launder something delicate, such as feminine underwear, using a mild soap	I have to go rinse a few things out. After I rinse out some things, I will be right with you.
rinse something out of something	to remove something from something by flushing it with water	See if you can rinse the dirt out of this jacket. I can't rinse out the dirt.

rinse something with something	to flush something with some fluid	You should rinse your clothes in milk or tomato juice to remove the smell of the skunk. Please rinse the stain with cold water.

rinse something/somebody down	to wash or clean someone or something with water or other fluid	I rinsed him down for an hour and still didn't get the smell of skunk off him. I had to rinse down the driveway.

rinse something/somebody off	to wash or clean someone or something by flushing with water or other fluid	Mother rinsed the baby off and dried him with a soft towel. She rinsed off the baby.

rip into something/somebody	to attack someone or something by ripping	The raccoons ripped into the trash bags, scattering papers and stuff all over the street. The horrid murderer ripped into the helpless victim.
rip into something/somebody	to criticize or censure someone or something severely	The drama critic ripped into Larry. The critics really ripped into Larry's poor performance.
rip off	to charge excessively or obtain money unfairly	Tourists get RIPPED OFF a lot when they don't speak the language.
rip off	to cheat; to swindle	Don't go into that store - the owner will try to rip you off.
rip off	[for something] to tear or peel off	My pocket ripped off, and my money is gone now! A piece of the bumper ripped off my car.
rip somebody off	to cheat or deceive someone	If your kids lie to you, you feel emotionally ripped off. She offers advice on how you can keep restaurants from ripping you off.
rip somebody off	to steal [something] from someone; to cheat someone	That merchant ripped me off! She rips off everyone. He admitted he had ripped off a drug smuggler and blown up his boat. I have a great idea for a book, but I don't want the publisher to rip me off.
rip something off	to steal something [from someone]	Two students ripped off a fund for leukemia patients. I ripped off the idea from an old friend. The mugger ripped my purse off of me. Jane ripped off a lot of money. Somebody ripped my wallet off.
rip something off (of) something/somebody	to tear something away from someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	I ripped the cover off of the book accidentally. I ripped off the book cover.

rip something away (from something)	to tear or strip something away	Billy ripped the wrapping paper away from the box. He ripped away the paper.

rip something down	to tear something down (Alludes to something that has been posted or mounted)	The custodian ripped all the posters down at the end of the day. He ripped down the posters.

rip something in half	to tear something into two parts	Did you know that Ed can rip a telephone book in half? I can rip a newspaper in two.

rip something out of something/somebody	to tear something out of someone or something	The high priest ripped the beating heart out of the sacrificial victim. The priest ripped out the victim's heart.

rip something up	to take something up by force and remove it (Usually refers to something on the floor or ground, such as carpeting or pavement)	They are going to rip all the broken sidewalk up. The workers ripped up the pavement and loaded the pieces into a truck.
rip something/somebody up	to tear someone or something into bits; to mutilate someone or something	Careful! That machine will rip you up if you fall in. I ripped up the contract and threw the pieces in the trash.

rip something/somebody apart	to tear someone or something apart into pieces	The automobile accident ripped the car apart. Don't rip apart the newspaper!

rip something/somebody to something	to criticize someone or something mercilessly	The critics ripped Gerald to pieces even though the audience just loved his show. They ripped the whole production to pieces.
rip something/somebody to something	to tear someone or something into small pieces, expressed as bits, pieces, shreds, etc.	If you fall into that lawn mower, it will rip you to pieces. The lawn mower ripped the newspaper to tiny bits.

ripen into something	to mature into something	This problem is going to ripen into a real crisis if we don't do something about it right now. The small matter ripened into a large problem in a short time.
ripen into something	to ripen and become something recognizable	This little green ball will ripen into an apple.

ripple of !

rise to !

risk something on something/somebody	to chance losing something on someone or something	I wouldn't risk any money on him. He's a poor credit risk. Don't risk your life on his being there to help you.

rival somebody in something	to have a quality or status that is comparable to that of someone else	I would say that Jane rivals Dave in the ability to find the essential elements of a problem and deal with them swiftly. No one rivals Ted in pitching a baseball.

rivet on something/somebody !
rivet something on(to) something	to attach something to something with rivets	The pockets of these jeans are riveted onto the body of the pants. You should rivet on this part of the frame to the wall.

roam about	to wander or range about freely	Stay where you are and don't roam about. I'm too tired to roam around very much.

roar at something/somebody	to bellow or bawl at someone or something	Don't roar at me! Control your temper. The lion roared at the hyena, who ran off.
roar at something/somebody	to laugh very hard at someone or something	The audience roared at the clown. The children roared at Dad's jokes.

roar away	to speed away, making a loud clamor	The car roared away into the night with tires screeching. The train roared away, carrying Andy to Canada.

roar something out	to bellow something out loudly	Walter roared his protest out so everyone knew how he felt. Jane roared out her criticism.

rob somebody of something	to deprive someone of something, not necessarily by theft	What you have done has robbed me of my dignity! If you do that, you will rob yourself of your future.

rock around	to tilt or totter about	The boat rocked around, tossing the passengers to and fro. The road was bumpy and the huge car rocked around.

rock bottom	if you are at rock bottom, you are the most unhappy you have ever been in your life I'd never felt so depressed in my life - I was at rock bottom - so I started drinking	After Carly left me I hit rock bottom.
rock bottom	the lowest possible level	The morale of prison officers is at rock bottom. The president's opinion poll ratings have hit rock bottom.

rock somebody to something	to help someone, usually an infant, get to sleep by rocking in a rocking chair, cradle, or carriage	It is best to rock the baby to sleep after you feed her. Somehow she learned to rock herself to sleep.

rocket (in)to something	[for a projectile] to ascend into the sky or into space; [for something] to shoot rapidly into something	The space shuttle rocketed into space. The locomotive rocketed into the darkness.
rocket (in)to something	[for someone] to ascend rapidly into something, such as fame or prominence	Jill rocketed into prominence after her spectacular performance on the guitar. She will undoubtedly rocket to success.

roll back	to reduce or remove	The government wants to ROLL BACK the freedom of the press.
roll back	to retreat	The army ROLLED BACK when they came under attack.

roll in	to arrive in large numbers, for military vehicles	The tanks ROLLED IN and took control of the capital city.
roll in	to arrive somewhere, especially if late	They ROLLED IN very drunk at three o'clock in the morning.
roll in	to arrive in great numbers/ quantity	He thinks that if he opens a restaurant, people will just roll in automatically.

roll on	when something continues to happen	The competition ROLLED ON despite the administrative problems.
roll on	said when you can't wait for something nice in the future	Roll on Friday! It's been a dreadful week.

roll out	to launch or introduce a new product, initiative, etc.	The company ROLLED OUT its takeover plans last week.

roll up	to appear in large numbers for an event	Thousands ROLLED UP to see the stars at the film premiere.
roll up	an imperative used to attract people to a public event	Roll up! Come and see the circus tonight.

roll with !

roll/trip off !

romp around	to run and bounce around playfully	The horses were in the meadow, romping around in the crisp autumn air. The children need to get out and romp around.

romp in	to easily	In the first race, the favourite ROMPED IN.

romp on somebody	to beat or win over, as in a sports contest	Our team romped on our opponents and beat them 10 to We romped all over them.
romp on somebody	to scold someone	The teacher romped on the students for their behavior. He romped all over all of them.

romp through	to do something easily or quickly	We ROMPED THROUGH the tasks because they were so simple.
romp through something	to run through something fast and playfully	The conductor romped through the slow movement of the symphony as if it were a march. The cast romped through the last act, knowing that the play would be closed that very night.

room for

room in	to keep a mother and baby together after the birth	Nowadays, most hospitals have a policy of ROOMING IN mothers and their babies.

room together	[for two or more people] to share a room, as in a college dormitory	Sarah and I roomed together in college. We don't want to room together anymore.

room with somebody	to share a room with someone, as in college	I need someone to room with me next year. No one wants to room with Kelly.

root about	to look in a place to try to find something	He ROOTED ABOUT in his briefcase, trying to find a pen.

root around	to look in a place to try to find something	I ROOTED AROUND my flat trying to find the letter.
root around (for something)	to dig or shuffle in or through something, looking for something	Alice rooted around in her desk drawer for a pen. I'll root around here and see if I can find it.

root for	to support	Everyone was ROOTING FOR Arsenal to win the Champions League.
root for somebody/something	to support or encourage a person or team	I always root for the home team. When you take the test tomorrow, we'll be rooting for you. Usage notes: often used when talking about a sports competition.
root for something/somebody	to cheer and encourage someone or something	Are you rooting for anyone in particular, or are you just shouting because you're excited? I'm rooting for the home team.the root of the matter Go to the crux of the matter.

root out	to find the source of a problem and remove it	They are trying to ROOT OUT the troublemakers.
root out	to look for and find	The police ROOTED OUT the informer.
root out something	to find and remove a problem	She promises to root out corruption in state government. Retreating forces can blend into the landscape, making it more difficult to root them out.
root something out	to get rid of something completely; to destroy something to its roots or core	No government will ever root out crime completely. The principal wants to root out troublemakers at the local school.
root something/somebody out of something	to seek and remove someone or something from something or some place; to seek to discover or bring something to light	The committee wanted to root all the lazy people out of the club. The manager rooted out all the deadwood.

root something in something	to start a plant growing roots in something	I tried to root the plants in sand, but they died. You have to root this kind of tree in very rich soil.

root something up	[for a pig] to find something in the ground by digging with its nose	The pigs will root your plants up if they get out of their pen. The pigs will root up your plants if they get out of their pen.
root up	to dig a plant out of the ground	He ROOTED UP the plants and replanted them.

rope in	to get somebody to help	The teacher ROPED her students IN to carry her stuff when she had to change classroom.
rope in somebody/something	to persuade a person or group to do something	They're running ads that they hope will rope in the undecided voters. Once they're interested in the product, we try to rope them in and sell it to them. Usage notes: also used in the form rope someone into doing something: He roped me into helping him clean up the yard.

rope somebody into doing something	to persuade or trick someone into doing something	I don't know who roped me into doing this, but I don't want to do it. See if you can rope somebody into taking this to the post office.
rope somebody into something	to cause someone to get involved in some project	She's always trying to rope me into her club. Let's rope in someone to help with cleaning up.

rope somebody or an animal up	to tie someone or an animal up with a rope	Rope this guy up tight so he won't get away. The cowboy roped up the steer.

rope something off	to isolate something with a rope barrier	The police roped the scene of the accident off. The police roped off the scene of the accident.

rope something together	to tie or bind up a thing or things with rope	Rope this carton together and put it in the trunk of the car. Rope together these two packages and take them to the truck.

rot away	to decompose; to decompose and fall away	The fallen trees rotted away and surrendered their nutrients to the soil. As the wood rotted away, it became rich humus.

rot off	to decompose	If you don't clean and repaint that old windowsill, it will rot off. A few old branches finally rotted off, but the ancient tree looked as if it would survive the wet spell.

rotate on something	to spin on something; to pivot on something	This wheel rotates on this little red jewel on the main frame of the watch. The record rotates on this device, which is called a turntable.

rough up	to assault	The mugger ROUGHED him UP when he refused to hand his wallet over.
rough up	to hurt physically	When the cops arrived, they saw that the man had been roughed up a bit.

round off	to finish something in a satisfactory manner	Winning the FA Cup ROUNDED OFF a wonderful season for Arsenal.

rouse somebody from something	to awaken someone from something; to cause someone to come out of something	I roused Tom from his nap and sent him on his way. We could not rouse her from her deep sleep.

rouse somebody out of something	to awaken someone out of a state, such as sleep	It was almost impossible to rouse George out of his sleep. They could not rouse us out of our drowsy state.

rouse somebody to something	to stir someone to something	I will rouse the workers to action. They will work or have to find other jobs. The speech by the president roused the citizens to action.

roust somebody out of something	to force someone out of something	Bob's brother rousted him out of bed just in time for the school bus. He rousted out his brother.

rout something/somebody out of some place	to remove someone or something from some place by force	The soldiers routed the snipers out of the deserted buildings. They routed out the snipers.

route something/somebody around something	to send someone or something on a path that avoids something	The travel agent routed us around the congestion of the big city. Due to the storm, they routed the trains around the fallen bridge.

row (something/somebody) out to something	to carry someone or something in a rowboat from the shore out to something	Will you row me out to the island? I rowed out all the visitors to the little island.
row back	to retreat from a position	The prime minister refused to ROW BACK and lost the vote.

rub along	to have a reasonably good relationship	They're not friends, but we RUB ALONG.

rub down	to dry or clean something with a cloth	She RUBBED the horse DOWN with a towel after riding it.
rub down	to massage or rub someone to help them relax	The trainer RUBBED her DOWN after the race.

rub elbows (with somebody)	to associate with someone; to work closely with someone (No physical contact is involved)	I don't care to rub elbows with someone who acts like that! I rub shoulders with John at work. We are good friends.
rub elbows with somebody	to meet or be with someone socially rub shoulders with somebody	As Ms Quasebarth's personal assistant, Celia has rubbed elbows with singers and DJ's and even presidents.

rub in	to apply a substance like cream or ointment and rub it until it is absorbed	He applied the steroid cream and RUBBED it IN.
rub it in	to emphasise how bad a situation is to make someone feel worse	Even though the minister had resigned, the press RUBBED IT IN by publishing more details of the scandal.
rub in/into !

rub off	to transmit to someone	After hanging out with Hans for the past year, I can say that his love of bratwurst has rubbed off on me.
rub off on	to pass a quality or characteristic to people	His enthusiasm RUBS OFF ON everyone around him.

rub out	to delete ink or pencil with an eraser	He RUBBED OUT the figure and wrote the correct one in.
rub out	to kill	The gangsters RUBBED him OUT for stealing from them.

rub with somebody !

rub up against	touch someone in a sensual or sexual way	The cat RUBBED UP AGAINST my leg purring.

rub up on	to revise	I need to RUB UP ON my Portuguese before I go to Brazil.

ruffle something up	to raise something, such as feathers, up or outward	The bird ruffled its feathers up and started to preen. It ruffled up its feathers.

ruin of something/somebody	the cause of destruction; a failure	Your bad judgment will be the ruin of this company! The greedy politicians were the ruin of the old empire.

rule (somebody) with !

rule against something/somebody	to give a judgment against someone or something	The judge ruled against the prosecutor. The judge ruled against my motion.

rule of something/somebody !

rule on something	to give a decision or judgment about something	How long will it be before the court rules on your petition? The boss will rule on your request tomorrow.

rule out	to eliminate	The police ruled out political motives. We can't rule out revenge as a possible motive.
rule out	to exclude a possibility	The police have RULED OUT suicide and are treating it as a case of murder.
rule out something	to stop considering something as a possibility	My doctor has ruled out drinking tea or coffee. Let's see how much the trip will cost before we rule it out.
rule something/somebody out	to prevent, disqualify, overrule, or cancel someone or something	John's bad temper rules him out for the job. The rainy weather ruled out a picnic for the weekend.

rule over something/somebody	to serve as the boss or chief over someone or something	I guess you could say that the boss rules over me. The president of a democracy doesn't really rule over the country.

rule with !

ruminate about something	to ponder and think about something (Alludes to a cow, relaxing and chewing its cud, as if it is thinking)	He sat, ruminating about the events of the day, humming and eating peanuts. Let me ruminate on this a little bit.

rummage around (somewhere) (for something)	to move things about haphazardly while looking for something somewhere	Alice rummaged around in the drawer for a candy bar she had been saving. After she rummaged around for the candy bar, she found it. She rummaged around in the old trunk.

rummage through something	to move things about haphazardly while searching through something	I rummaged through my top drawer, looking for any two socks that matched. Mary spent some time rummaging through the toolbox before she found what she was looking for.

rumple something/somebody up	to bring disorder to someone ['s clothing] or something; to wrinkle someone or something	One of the little boys knocked another boy down and rumpled him up. He rumpled up Dan's shirt.

run (something) by (somebody)	to tell someone something; To let someone know about something	The Secretary of State ran the plan by the President.

run across (something)	to meet or find accidentally	I RAN ACROSS an old friend in the library.

run after	to chase

run around !

run away	to escape from a place or suddenly leave; to escape, fleehild ran away from home and has been missing for three days; to escape; leave; leave quickly without permission	He ran away from home when he was 16. The cat ran away from me. He ran away from home at the age of fourteen.
run away	to escape from people chasing you	He RAN AWAY from his attackers.

run to something !

run down	to hit a pedestrian with a vehicle	The minicab RAN him DOWN on the zebra crossing.
run down	to knock down, collide with; feel weak due to overwork
run down	to lose energy or power	You should only recharge the battery when it has fully RUN DOWN.

run dry	to be all used completely	We have been told the Social Security trust fund will run dry in a few more years because so many people will be retiring.

run for	to campaign for a position; to try to become elected as	She's thinking about RUNNING FOR the presidency. Bill Clinton ran for president twice, and both times he was elected.

run in	to arrest, take to police station for questioning; to imprison	They RAN him IN last night.
run in	to drive a new car carefully in order not to damage the engine	She RAN the car IN for a thousand miles.
run in	to insert	He RAN a graph IN next to the text.
run in	to pay a casual visit	We RAN IN and chatted for an hour.

run into	to cost	The project has RUN INTO millions of dollars without any prospect of a return on this investment.
run into	to meet by accident; to meet by chance	I RAN INTO James in a bar in the City on Friday. Guess who I ran into the other day? My math teacher from high school!
run into somebody/something	to meet unexpectedly	I ran into an old school-friend at the mall.
run into; bump into	to meet by accident or unexpectedly	Sophie ran into Maria at the shopping centre.

run off	to make photocopies	Could you RUN OFF two hundred copies of this report, please?
run off	to run away; to escape, flee	They ran off without paying the bill.

run on	to be powered by	The van RUNS ON diesel.

run out	to have none left	We ran out of shampoo so I had to wash my hair with soap.
run out	to run outside; become used up
run out of	to exhaust one's stock
run out of	to have no more of something	What a nuisance! I've run out of coffee. I'm afraid we ran out of milk and cookies.
run out of	to have none left	We've RUN OUT OF sugar; I'm going to the shops for some.
run out of	to have no more, to use up completely	I ran out of gas on the way to my aunt's house.
run out of something

run over	to exceed a time limit	The meeting RAN OVER by twenty minutes.
run over	to explain quickly	Could you RUN OVER that point again; I'm afraid I didn't quite understand it.
run over	to hit with a vehicle	The driver couldn't stop in time and RAN the fox OVER when it ran in front of his car.
run over	to overflow; study quickly; pass over, knock down
run over somebody/something	to drive a vehicle over a person or thing	I accidentally ran over your bicycle in the driveway.
run over/through something	to rehearse, review	Let's run over/through these lines one more time before the show.

run through	to practise a dramatic work like a play quickly	The cast RAN THROUGH the play the day before it opened to the public.
run through	to stab or wound deeply with a knife, sword, etc.	The musketeer RAN his enemy THROUGH with a sword and killed him.

run to	to go to someone for help	Whenever he gets into debt, he RUNS TO his parents for help.
run to	to have enough money to buy something, often negative	Things are a bit tight and won't RUN TO going abroad for a holiday.
run to	to include in things you like	His musical tastes RUN TO the Residents, who are hated by most people.

run up	to do or make something very quickly	He RAN UP a few examples for them to look at.
run up	to hoist, raise a flag	They RAN UP the Union Jack.
run up	to move quickly to where someone is	He RAN UP next to me and started shouting.
run up	to spend a lot of money on credit	He RAN UP a lot of bills at the hotel.
run up against	to encounter problems, often unexpected	They RAN UP AGAINST a lot of opposition to the construction.
run up against	to meet with difficulties
run up on	to approach someone without their knowing	Robert was sitting in his car and a guy RAN UP ON him and shot through the car but missed.

run with	to keep company, normally bad	She RUNS WITH some dodgy characters.

runt of !

rush at something/somebody	to run at or charge toward someone or something	The dog rushed at us and scared us to death. Mary rushed at the door, but it slammed shut before she got there.

rush for something	to hurry to something	All the people rushed for the exits when the game was over. We rushed for the picnic tables as soon as they said that lunch was ready.

rush in	to begin doing something without the proper preparation	Don't rush into this job without thinking it through. Mary rushed in without thinking.
rush in	to run or hurry into a thing or a place	Everyone rushed into the shelter when the rain started. They all rushed in at once.

rush into	to do something too quickly	They don't want to be RUSHED INTO giving an answer and have asked for more time.
rush somebody into something	to hurry someone into doing something	We rushed Harry into taking the job. Sally has always hated that dress. Sam rushed her into buying it.
rush something into print	to print up something hastily	The story was so timely that the newspaper editor rushed it into print without checking all the details. We will rush the book into print as soon as the author finishes.
rush something/somebody into something	to lead or carry someone or something into something or some place hurriedly	I rushed her into the hospital emergency room, and everything was soon all right. The nurse rushed in the emergency medical equipment.

rush off (from some place)	to hurry away from some place	I'm sorry, but I will have to rush off from this meeting before it's over. Mary had to rush off before the party was over.
rush something off (to something/somebody)	to send something quickly to someone or something	I will rush your order off to you immediately. I need to rush off this package to Walter.

rush on something	a large demand for something	There was a rush on bottled water during the drought. During the hot summer, there was a run on air conditioners.

rush out (of something)	to exit in a hurry	Everyone rushed out of the room at the same time. They rushed out because they smelled smoke.
rush something/somebody out of something	to lead or guide someone or something out of something or some place hurriedly	The ushers rushed everyone out of the church so they could clean the place before the next wedding. They rushed out another edition of the newspaper that afternoon.

rush somebody to the hospital	to take someone to the hospital very quickly	They had to rush her to the hospital because she had stopped breathing. We rushed Uncle Harry to the hospital after he complained of chest pains.
rush to something/somebody	to hurry to get to someone, something, or some event	I rushed to the injured man to try to help him. We all rushed to the office to see what had happened.

rush something through	to move something through some process or office in a hurry	He was in a hurry so we rushed his order through the shipping department. He asked us to rush it through.
rush something through	to pass something through a physical area rapidly	He rushed the ambulance through the gate to the stadium. Strong blowers rushed many cubic feet of air through the ductwork into all the rooms.
rush through something	to hurry to get something finished; to race through something	Please don't rush through this business. Get it right. Timmy rushed through dinner so he could go out and play.

rust away	to dissolve away into rust	In a few years, this car will rust away if you don't take care of it. The bridge is rusting away, little by little.

rust out	to develop holes or weak places owing to rust	Our hot water heater rusted out and flooded the basement.

rustle up something	to make or get something quickly	Instead of eating out, she rustled up a romantic little dinner. They want $100 by tomorrow, and I can't rustle that amount up so quickly.
rustle up something	to manage to prepare a meal, perhaps on short notice	I think I can rustle something up for dinner. Please rustle up something to eat.


sack out	to go to bed or go to sleep	It's time for me to sack out. Let's sack out early tonight. You can bring your sleeping bags and sack out on the living room floor.

sack something up	to put something into bags or sacks	Please sack the groceries up and put them in the cart. I will sack up your groceries.

sacrifice something on !

saddle somebody with something/somebody	to burden someone with someone or something undesirable, annoying, or difficult to deal with	I apologize for saddling you with my young cousin all day. I didn't mean to saddle you with my problems.
saddle somebody/something with something	to give someone or something a difficult responsibility	Student aid often comes as loans, which can saddle students with debt for years. I hope I'm not going to be saddled with all the cooking on this vacation. The company was saddled with many lawsuits.

saddle up	to mount one's horse and sit in the saddle	The cowboys saddled up and took off after the rustlers.
saddle up	to prepare one's horse for riding by putting a saddle on it	Let's saddle up and go for a ride.

safe from something/somebody

safeguard against something/somebody	to protect against someone or something	We will try to safeguard against accidents. How can I safeguard against prowlers?
safeguard something/somebody against something/somebody	to protect someone or something against someone or something	We will take action that will safeguard you against a recurrence of the unpleasantness. I will safeguard my family against the prowler.

sag away (from something)	to settle or droop down or away	The cloth sagged away from the edge of the table.

sag down	to droop downward	The branch sagged down and nearly touched the ground. When the rain got the drapes wet, they sagged down and touched the floor.

sag under something	to droop under the burden of something	The porch roof sagged under the weight of the snow. The springs of the car sagged under the weight of all the passengers.

sail (right) through something	to get through a procedure, evaluation, or vote quickly and easily	The proposal sailed through the committee with no debate. I hope that this matter sails through quickly.
sail (right) through something	to go through something very quickly and easily	The kids just sailed right through the ice cream and cake. There was not a bit left. You have sailed through your allowance already.
sail (right) through something	to travel through something in a boat or ship	The line of boats sailed right through the Grenadines in the daylight hours. We sailed through the narrows without a pilot.
sail through	to finish an exam, test, interview, easily	John sailed through his Math exam.
sail through something	to easily succeed in something	The new voting machines sailed through their first election day test last Tuesday.
sail through something	to go quickly and smoothly through something	In the early evening light, we watched bats sail through the air, scooping up insects.

sail against something	to operate a boat or ship, so as to move against the wind	It takes skill and training to sail against the wind. The huge cruise ship sailed against the wind all the way to St. Thomas.

sail along (something)	to travel on a course in a boat or plane	The huge white ship sailed along the Amazon River slowly and peacefully. The boat sailed along peacefully.

sail around	to travel by water in a boat or ship	We sailed around for about an hour and then went back to the shore. Let's go out and sail around before dinner.

sail to !

sail for some place	to depart in a boat or ship for some place	This ship sails for Bridgetown, Barbados, at noon today. We will sail for home early in the morning.

sail from some place to some place else	to move or travel from one place to another in a boat or ship	We sailed from San Juan to Acapulco. The ship sailed from its home port to Baltimore overnight.

sail in (to something)	to move or proceed into something or some place gracefully or without resistance	She sailed into the room wearing a flowing gown. Three young maidens sailed into the room before the door closed.
sail in (to something)	to travel into something or some place in a boat or ship	We sailed into the harbor nearly an hour late. We sailed in at noon.

sail into somebody	to attack someone; to chastise someone (Based on sail into someone or something)	The angry coach sailed into the players. The teacher sailed into Timmy for breaking the window.
sail into something	to change to a new condition	The economy, for all its strengths, was sailing into trouble.
sail into something/somebody	to crash into someone or something	The missile sailed into the soldiers, injuring a few. The car sailed into the lamppost.
sail into something/somebody	to crash into someone or something with a boat or ship	The boat sailed into the dock, causing considerable damage. I was in my skiff when a larger boat sailed into me.
sail into somewhere	to enter a place quickly and confidently	He sailed into the press conference on Friday, grinning at the journalists.

sail under !

sail up !

sally forth	to go forth; to leave and go out	The soldiers sallied forth from behind the stone wall. Well, it's time to sally forth and drive to work.

salt away something	to save something, esp	money, for use at a later time It's not easy paying a mortgage, raising a young child, and salting away enough money for your retirement.
salt something away	to store and preserve a foodstuff by salting it	The farmer's wife salted a lot of fish and hams away for the winter. She salted away a lot of food.
salt something away	to store something; to place something in reserve	I need to salt some money away for my retirement. I will salt away some money for emergencies.

salt of !

salt something down	to place salt on something, such as icy roads	I won't go out until midmorning, after they have salted the roads down. I hope they salt down the roads soon.

salt something with something	to put a variety of salt or a salt substitute onto some food	Oscar salts his food with a salt substitute. Did you salt your meat with salt or something else?
salt something with something	to put something into something as a lure (Refers to putting a bit of gold dust into a mine in order to deceive someone into buying the mine)	The land agent salted the bank of the stream with a little gold dust hoping for a land rush to start. Someone salted the mine to fool the prospectors.

salute somebody with something	to greet or honor someone with the firing of guns or an over flight of airplanes (Military or government)	The government saluted the visiting dignitary with a twenty-one gun salute. They saluted the prime minister with a flight of acrobatic jets.
salute somebody with something	to greet someone with a formal hand salute	He failed to salute the officer with the proper salute and was reprimanded. David saluted the captain with the appropriate salute and passed on by.

salvage something from something/somebody	to rescue or save something from someone or something	The baby got into the eggs, but I was able to salvage about six of them from him before they were broken all over the place. I salvaged a good pair of shoes from the trash.

sand something down	to make something smooth by rubbing it with sandpaper (To act on the main body of the object, not the imperfections)	You should sand the board down before you paint it. Please sand down the board.
sand something down	to remove bumps or imperfections on the surface of something by rubbing them with sandpaper (To act on the imperfections, not the main body of the object)	Sand these bumps down, will you? Sand down these bumps, please.

satiate (somebody or an animal) with something	to provide enough of something for someone or an animal	The waiters set out to satiate the guests with whatever sinful desserts they desired. The zookeeper satiated the tigress with a huge leg of beef.

satisfy (somebody or an animal) with something	to use something to please or content someone or an animal	Do you think I can satisfy Mrs. Franklin with payment for her broken window? A dog biscuit will satisfy the dog until its regular feeding time.

satisfy something by something	to fulfill a requirement, using a particular thing, such as a school or college course	Can I satisfy the requirements by taking a course in art? Will I satisfy the requirement with this course?

saturate something/somebody with something	to drench someone or something thoroughly with something	The rain saturated them all with cooling water. Irrigation saturated the field with the moisture they needed.

saunter along	to walk along slowly; to ramble along	Bob sauntered along, looking as if he didn't have a care in the world. I was just sauntering along, minding my own business, when all of a sudden a mugger jumped out and swiped my purse.

save (somebody) from (something)
save somebody from something

save (up) (for something)	to accumulate money in order to buy something	I can't buy a car because I am saving up for college. I don't have the money now, but I am saving up.
save up	I'm saving up money for a new car.
save up for (something)	to save money for (something)	John was saving up for a new motorcycle.

savor of something	to taste like something	This casserole savors of nutmeg. The meat savors of too much garlic.

saw into something	to cut into something with a saw	The carpenter sawed into the beam and had it cut in two in no time at all. Be careful not to saw into the table.

saw something (up) (into something)	to cut something up into pieces with a saw	Jake sawed the logs up into pieces the right size for the fireplace. Would you saw up the logs into smaller pieces?

saw something down	to cut something down with a saw	We are going to have to saw that dead tree down before it falls on the house. I'll saw down the tree.

saw something off (of) something	to cut something off something with a saw (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	He sawed the branch off of the tree. Sam sawed the dead branch off. Saw off another branch on the other side.

saw through something	to cut through something with a saw	I can't saw through this wood. It's too hard! I can saw through it!

scale back something	to design or adjust the size of one thing to match or complement the size of another thing	The architect sought to scale the office building to the buildings surrounding it. The playhouse will have to be scaled to the main house.
scale back something	to reduce the size or amount of something	The search for the child was scaled back sharply today, with almost a third of the volunteers heading home. The program was very effective, but the plan now is to scale it back. Usage notes: also used in the form scale down: The original jury award of $10 million was scaled down to $250,000 by the judge.

scale something down	to reduce the size or cost of something	The bad economy forced us to scale the project down. Liz scaled down the project.

scale up something	to make something larger, esp	a design or model A number of companies manufacturing a line of popular small cars have simply scaled up those models. Engineers did not completely understand what would happen if they scaled their design up.

scamper along	[for a child or small animal] to run along nimbly	The rabbit scampered along, unaware that a fox was following it. It is time for Timmy to scamper along home.

scamper away	[for a child or small animal] to run away nimbly	The rabbit scampered away across the lawn. The children scampered away when they heard the teacher coming.

scar over	[for an injury] to form and leave a scar	The wound will scar over, but your arm will never be the same as it was before the accident.

scare somebody stiff	to frighten someone severely (Stiff = dead)	That loud noise scared me stiff. The robber jumped out and scared us stiff.

scared of something/somebody

scarf out	to overeat	I scarf out whenever we have pizza. My brother scarfs out every day - ;around the clock!

scarf something down	to eat something, perhaps in a hurry; to swallow something, perhaps in a hurry	Are you going to scarf this whole thing down? Here, scarf down this sandwich.

scavenge (around) for something/somebody	to search everywhere for someone or something	We had to scavenge for a person who would agree to run for president in my place. Sam scavenged around for a socket wrench.

scheme against something/somebody	to plot or conspire against someone or something	A group of generals was plotting against the government. They schemed against the king until he caught them and put an end to it.

school of !

school somebody in something	to train, discipline, or coach someone in something	The voice coach schooled the singer in excellent breathing techniques. We were schooled in oratory and debate. She schooled herself in patience.

scoff at something/somebody	to show ridicule or scorn for someone or something	The directors scoffed at her when she presented her plan. They scoffed at my new hat, not realizing how stylish it was.

scold (somebody) for ([doing] something)
scold somebody for something	to rebuke or chastise someone for doing something	The manager scolded the worker for misplacing the door key. The teacher scolded all the students for their bad behavior.

scold somebody about something	to rebuke or chastise someone about something	How many times have I scolded you about that? Please don't scold me about something I didn't do.

scoop something out of something	to remove something from something by dipping or scooping	She scooped the water out of the bottom of the rowboat. Karen scooped out the water.

scoop something up	to gather and remove something by scooping, dipping, or bailing	Karen scooped the nuts up and put them in a bag. Jill scooped up all the money she had won and left the poker table.

scoot down (to some place)	to go (down) somewhere in a hurry	I want you to scoot down to the store and get me a dozen eggs. Okay? I'll scoot down as soon as I finish reading the newspaper.

scoot over	to slide sideways while seated	Scoot over and let me sit down. If you scoot over, we can get another person in this row.
scoot over to something/somebody	to travel or move over to someone or something or some place in a hurry	Scoot over to Don and ask him to come here for a minute. We all scooted over to the stadium for the football game.

scope (on) somebody	to evaluate a member of the opposite sex visually	He scoped every girl who came in the door. He wouldn't like it if somebody scoped on him. Or would he?

scope something/somebody out	to look someone or something over; to check someone or something out	Hey, scope the new car out! Dave was scoping out all the girls.

score against something/somebody	to make a point or goal against someone or some team	Because of his bad ankle, Fred was unable to score against his defender. We never scored against the visiting team.
score something (up) against something/somebody	to tally up a score against someone or some team	Tara scored a few points against Sally. The Bears scored up thirteen points against the Giants.

score something for something	to arrange music for one or more musical instruments; to arrange music for a particular type of voice or voices	The arranger scored the music for two pianos. The arranger scored the song for a four-part chorus.
score something for something	to scratch something, such as glass, for breaking	Valerie scored the piece of glass for breaking and then snapped it off. The worker scored the pane of glass for snapping off.

score with (somebody or a group)	to please someone or a group	Her rendition of "Old Kentucky Home" really scored with the audience. You really score with me.

scour something for something/somebody	to look carefully and thoroughly in something for someone or something	I scoured the entire roster of members for a person who would agree to run for president. The police scoured the entire area for any sign of the suspects.

scour something off (of) something	to clean something off something else by scouring (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	See if you can scour the rust off the cookie sheet. I will scour off the rust with steel wool.

scour something out	to clean something out by scouring	Would you scour the pans out? Please scour out the pans - ;don't just wash them.
scour something out of something	to clean something out of something by scouring	Did you scour the rust out of the pan? Please scour the burned material out of the bowl.

scout around (for something/somebody)	to look around for someone or something	I don't know who would do a good job for you, but I'll scout around for a likely candidate. You stay here. I'll scout around.

scout something/somebody out	to search for and discover someone or something	I will scout a new salesclerk out for you if you want. I'll scout out a new clerk for you.

scout something/somebody up	to search for and find someone or something	I'll scout up a costume for the Halloween party. Can you scout a date up for Friday night?

scowl at something/somebody	to make a frown of disapproval or displeasure at someone or something	Why are you scowling at me? I didn't do anything wrong! Mary scowled at her noisy cat.

scramble for something/somebody	to push and struggle to get to someone or something	All the teenagers scrambled for the rock star but couldn't catch him. The children scrambled for the candy as it fell from the pinata.

scrape along (on something)	to manage just to get along with a minimum amount of something	We can just scrape along on the money I earn from my sewing. Do you think you can scrape along with just $400 per month?

scrape by	to come very close to failing	She only scraped by in the last election and no one expects her to win this time.
scrape by	to have only enough money to buy the basic things you need to live	Even with both of us working, we earn just enough to scrape by.
scrape by	to just barely succeed at something	Did Stefan pass his English exam? Yes, but he just scraped by.
scrape by	to spend very little money, especially because you are saving it to buy something expensive (often + to do sth)	We had to scrimp and save to buy our first house.

scrape something away (from something)	to scratch or rasp something off something	Ted scraped the rough places away from the fender he was repairing. Ted scraped away the rough places.

scrape something off (of) something/somebody	to rub or stroke something off someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	I sat down and scraped the caked mud off of me. It was everywhere! Jake scraped off the rust.

scrape something out	to empty something by scraping	Scrape the pan out. Don't leave any of that good sauce inside. Please scrape out the pan.
scrape something out of something	to remove something by scraping	Scrape all the peanut butter out of the jar before you discard it. Scrape out the peanut butter.

scrape something together	to gather things together by scraping	The waiter scraped all the crumbs together and removed them from the table with a little gadget. Karen scraped together all the trimmings and set them aside.
scrape something/somebody together	to find and collect something; to locate and assemble a group of people or things (Based on scrape something up)	Fm sure we can scrape up someone for the job. Mary scraped a few dollars together for some new books. John barely scraped up enough money to pay his rent.
scrape together	to collect, find, gather	We managed to scrape together enough money to buy a bottle of wine.
scrape together something	to gather something that is not easily available, esp	money He managed to scrape together $20 for the train and came back home. Many immigrants have difficulty scraping enough money together for the application. Usage notes: also in the form scrape up something: Somehow these families managed to scrape up the tuition fee.

scrape through	to get by something just barely; to pass a test just barely	Alice passed the test, but she just scraped through it. I just scraped through my calculus test.
scrape through	to move through something, scraping or rubbing the sides	The car, going at a very high speed, scraped through the tunnel. It just managed to scrape through.

scratch about	to hunt for something in dirt, gravel, rocks, etc.	The prospector spent the day scratching about for signs of gold. The chickens were scratching around for something to eat.
scratch about	to look very hard for something	The children were scratching about the kitchen for something to eat. I've been scratching around for a new assistant for months now.

scratch at something	to scratch something	You shouldn't scratch at a chigger bite because it might get infected. Don't scratch at it!

scratch somebody's back	to do a favor for someone in return for a favor done for you	You scratch my back, and I'll scratch yours. We believe that the mayor has been scratching the treasurer's back.
scratch somebody's back	to scratch, usually with the fingers, the parts of someone's back that they cannot reach	Please scratch my back between my shoulder blades.

scratch something away	to rub or scrape something off by scratching	Look at the finish on this furniture. The cat has almost scratched it away! That cat scratched away the finish on the table!

scratch something/somebody from something	to mark the name of someone or something off a list	We were obliged to scratch Dave from the list. The judges scratched the large collie from the eligibility list.

scratch something/somebody out	to mark out the name of someone or something	I scratched John out and wrote in George instead. I scratched out John and forgot about him.

scratch something/somebody up	to damage or mar someone or something by scratching	Being thrown clear of the car in the accident didn't break any bones, but it scratched her up a lot. Who scratched up my coffee table?

scream at something/somebody	to yell or screech at someone or something	Why are you screaming at me? Go scream at the dog, not me!

scream down (on something/somebody)	[for something, such as birds or bombs] to dive down on someone or something, with a loud noise or very swiftly	The bombs screamed down on the helpless peasants. As the bombs screamed down, some people ran and some prayed.
scream somebody down	to scream loudly at someone; to outscream someone (Compare this with shout someone down)	The angry crowd screamed down the politician. They screamed her down and drove her from the platform.
scream the place down	to scream very loudly	You can scream the place down if you like, but no one will hear you.

scream for something	to yell or shriek for something	The teenage audience applauded and screamed for more. The children said they were screaming for ice cream.

scream something out	to say something in a very loud voice	She screamed his name out for everyone to hear. Liz screamed out the winner's name.

scream with something	to scream because of something, such as pain, anger, rage, etc.	Frank screamed with pain when the car door closed on his fingers. The teacher screamed with rage when the student talked back.

screen something/somebody (off) (from something/somebody)	to make someone or something out of sight or blocked off to someone or something by erecting a screen	We screened her off from the patient in the next bed. We screened off the yard from the street.

screw around	to mess around; to waste time	Stop screwing around and get to work! I'm not screwing around, I'm thinking.
screw around	to play sexually; to indulge in sexual intercourse	A few couples were screwing around at the party. They say that Ted and Alice are screwing around a lot.
screw around (with somebody)	to annoy someone by wasting their time	You'll be sorry if you screw around with Captain Legore.
screw around (with somebody)	to have sex with someone who is not your regular partner	I think I saw the guy that she's been screwing around with.
screw around (with something)	to waste time	Stop screwing around and finish your work. They spent the whole morning screwing around with Jeff's motorcycle.
screw around with something/somebody	to fiddle with or mess around with someone or something	Andy screwed around with his clock until he broke it. Look, chum! Don't screw around with me!

screw off	to waste time	Stop screwing off and get busy! I'm not screwing off. This is my lunch hour.

screw somebody around	to harass or bother someone	Don't screw me around, man! I bite back! Max got tired of being screwed around by Lefty.

screw somebody out of something	to cheat someone out of something	I think you screwed me out of ten bucks on that deal. Max screwed me out of what was due me.

screw somebody over	to give someone a very bad time; to scold someone severely	Those guys really screwed you over. What started it? Don't think you can screw over me and my friends. I won't let you.

screw somebody up	to confuse someone mentally	Please don't screw me up again! You screwed up my train of thought.
screw something up	to attach something to a higher place by the use of screws	The bracket holding the shelf up has come loose. Will you please screw it up again? Please screw up this loose bracket.
screw something/somebody up	to interfere with someone or something; to mess up someone or something	Try again and don't screw it up this time. You really screwed up my brother by not being on time.
screw up	a mess; a blunder; utter confusion (Usually Screw-up)	This is the chef's screw-up, not mine. One more screw-up like that and you're fired.
screw up	to make a mistake, to do something badly	I really screwed up on my vocabulary test.
screw up	to mess up	I hope I don't screw up this time. The waiter screwed up again.
screw up (something)	to spoil or damage something	You couldn't screw up much worse than I did. Somehow the lawyer screwed up my appointment again. This is detailed work, and people screw it up once in a while.
screw up somebody	to confuse or hurt someone	She really screwed him up when she left him. Their parents' divorce really screwed up the kids.

screw something (on) (to something)	to attach something to something by the use of screws or other threaded fasteners	Screw the bracket onto the wall, will you? Screw on the bracket to the wall.

screw something down	to secure something to the floor or a base by the use of screws	You had better screw these seats down or someone will knock them over. Please screw down the shelf.

screw something into something	to twist something that is threaded into something	I screwed all the screws into the back of the computer and turned it on. Please screw this bracket into the wall.

scribble away (at something)	to write hard and fast at some task	He scribbled away at his notes as the lecturer droned on. Jane sat in the library scribbling away.

scribble something down	to write something down fast and not too neatly	He scribbled the figure down and raced for the telephone. Liz scribbled down the telephone number.

scrounge around (for something/somebody)	to look around all over for someone or something	I scrounged around for Jamie, but she was nowhere to be found. I will try to scrounge around for a replacement part that will do the job.

scrounge something/somebody up	to find someone or something somewhere; to dig someone or something up	I can't think of anyone just now, but I will scrounge someone up. They scrounged up an escort for Liz.

scrub something away	to clean something away by rubbing	See if you can scrub that rust away. Scrub away that rust if you can.

scrub something off (of) something	to clean something off something by scrubbing (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	I have to scrub the mud off the porch steps. Did you scrub off all the grease?
scrub something/somebody off	to clean someone or something by rubbing	Mother scrubbed Timmy off. Liz scrubbed off the countertop.

scrub something out	to clean out the inside of something by rubbing or brushing	Please scrub these pots out and put them away. Jim will scrub out the pots.
scrub something out of something	to clean something out of something by scrubbing	Please scrub the gravy out of the pot. Are you going to scrub out the burned material?

scrub something/somebody down	to clean someone or something thoroughly by rubbing	The mother scrubbed the baby down gently and put lotion on her. Please scrub down this floor.

scrub up	to clean oneself up	You have to scrub up before dinner. Please go scrub up before you come to the table.
scrub up	to clean oneself, especially one's hands and arms, as a preparation for performing a surgical procedure	The surgeon scrubbed up thoroughly before the operation. When you finish scrubbing up, someone will help you on with sterile clothing.

scrunch down	to squeeze or huddle down into a smaller shape	Mary scrunched down, trying to hide behind the chair. The children scrunched down so they wouldn't be seen.
scrunch down into something	to squeeze down into a small area or container	Fred scrunched down into his seat, hoping no one would see him there. Don't scrunch down into your seat. It's bad for your posture.
scrunch something down	to pack something tightly into something	Dave scrunched his clothing down into the drawer and closed it. Dave scrunched down his clothing into the suitcase.
scrunch something down	to squeeze something into a smaller size or shape	He scrunched the wad of paper down into a hard ball. Liz scrunched down the cloth into a pad for the hot pan. Scrunch the boxes down before you throw them away.

scrunch something up	to crush or crunch up	I pounded the biscuits and scrunched them up into crumbs. He scrunched up the note and threw it upon the fire.

scuff something up	to scrape or scratch something	Who scuffed my floor up? Please don't scuff up my freshly polished floors!

scuffle with somebody	to struggle or have a fight with someone	The two prisoners scuffled with each other a little till a guard came along and saw them. The cowboys scuffled with the deputies when they came out of the saloon.

scurry along	to run or scamper along fast	The children scurried along, trotting to school. We scurried along the trail, keeping watch out for things that might trip us up.

scuttle across something	to hurry across something (Said especially of a small animal)	A tiny mouse scuttled across the kitchen floor and startled me. A rabbit scuttled across my path.

scuttle away	[for a small animal] to run away	The otters scuttled away as we approached. A skunk scuttled away quickly - ;thank heavens.

seal of approval	a statement or action that shows a good opinion of something	We can finalize the trip to China once we get Bernard's seal of approval. With the seal of approval of a government grant, arts organizations find it easier to raise funds.

seal something (up) (with something)	to fasten something closed with something	Please seal this box up with twine. Would you seal up this box with tape?

seal something off from something/somebody	to make something inaccessible to someone or something	The police sealed the building off from everyone. They sealed off the building from all the reporters.

sealed (up)	settled; secured; cinched	The matter was sealed by Monday morning. The contract was sealed up just in time.

sealed with a kiss	written and sent with love and care (The initialism is sometimes written on love letters; Also an acronym)	All her letters come SWAK. I know they are sealed with a kiss, because she says so.

search after something/somebody	to look for someone or something (Perhaps over a long period of time)	We searched after a suitable candidate for weeks. I am searching after a part for my '57 Chevy.

search for	I searched for information about water pollution.
search for (something)
search for something/somebody	to look very hard for someone or something	I searched for Ted everywhere, but he was already gone. I have searched for my glasses high and low.
search high and low (for something)	to try very hard to find something look high and low (for something)	Janet searched high and low, but she couldn't find the kitten and finally had to ask the man.
search somebody for something	to feel, touch, pat, frisk, or examine electronically a person's body, looking for something hidden underneath the clothes	The police searched the suspect for hidden weapons. The airport guard used an electronic instrument to search the passengers for weapons.
search something for something/somebody	to examine something, looking for someone or something	Everyone searched the house for little Wally, but he was not to be found. I searched all my coat pockets for the note, but I didn't find it.

search something/somebody out	to seek and find someone or something	I will search Fred out. I know he's here somewhere. We have to search out the key to the safe-deposit box.

secede from something	to withdraw from something	Which was the first state to secede from the Union? We do not want to secede from the organization, but we will if we must.

secure something against (somebody, something, or an animal)	to fasten something against the entry of someone, an animal, or something	Jane secured the doors and windows against the prowler who was roving around the neighborhood. You had better secure the henhouse against coyotes.
secure something against (somebody, something, or an animal)	to obtain a legal order involving someone or something	I secured an injunction against Harry. If he bothers you again, he'll have to go into court to explain himself. We can't secure an injunction against this ruling.

seduce somebody from something	to lure someone away from something	The crooked agent seduced Jerry from his usual honest behavior. Frank was seduced from his proper ways by the offer of money.

see (somebody) out	to accompany (someone) to the exit/door	It's OK. I'll see myself out. = It's OK. You don't have to come with me to the door.

see about (something)	We need to see about buying our textbooks for the semester.

see double	to see two of everything instead of one, owing to a medical disorder	When I was driving, I saw two people on the road instead of one. I'm seeing double. There's something wrong with my eyes. Mike at first thought he was seeing double when he saw Mary with her sister. He didn't know she had a twin.

see off	to arrange/attend someone's goodbye party, to take leave of someone, to come say goodbye to someone (esp. at the place they are leaving from)	They came to see us off at the train station.
see off somebody; see somebody off

see through	I knew what he was up to, because I saw through him. I'll see this project through.
see through	to not be fooled by	I can't believe more people don't see through his lies.

see to	to make sure that (something happens)	I'll see to it that he gets your message.

seek after something/somebody	to keep looking for someone or something	I will continue to seek after the thief who stole my car. The thief was seeking after a late-model sedan.

seek something from something/somebody	to pursue something from someone or something	We will seek an injunction from the judge. My lawyer sought an injunction from the court to try to stop the building project.

seek something/somebody out	to search for and find someone or something	We will seek someone out to do the work for us. Liz sought out a helper for Karen.

seep away	[for a fluid] to escape little by little, as through a leak	All the oil seeped away, leaving none in the engine. The water seeped away after a while.

seep in (to something)	[for a fluid] to trickle or leak out of something	Water is seeping into the basement. Water is seeping in very slowly.

seep out (of something)	[for a fluid] to trickle or leak out of something	A lot of oil has seeped out of the car onto the driveway. There is oil seeping out. There must be a leak.

seep through something	[for a fluid] to permeate something and escape	The oil seeped through the gasket onto the ground. Some water seeped through the ceiling, ruining our carpet as well as the ceiling.

seethe with something	[for someone] to be agitated with anger, hatred, scorn, disgust, etc.	Laura was seething with rage as she entered the tax office. We were seething with disgust at the rude way they treated the people who had just moved in.
seethe with something/somebody	to swarm or seem to "boil" with someone or something	The wedding reception was seething with guests and well-wishers. The room was just seething with flies and other flying creatures.

segregate (somebody) from (somebody else)	to separate someone from someone else or something from something else	I was asked to segregate the swimmers from the nonswimmers. Let's segregate the larger fish from the smaller ones.

segregate (somebody, something, or an animal) into something	to isolate someone, an animal, or something into something or a special place	We segregated the infected people into a separate room. Let's segregate the white pigs into a different pen.

segue into something	to make a smooth transition into something (From filmmaking and broadcasting; Rhymes with egg - day)	At this point in the script, you should segue into the next scene. Don't segue here, this is where a commercial goes.

seize (up)on something	to accept or adopt something, such as a plan, idea, etc.	I heard her ideas and seized upon them immediately. The committee seized on my plan at once.
seize (up)on something	to grasp something tightly (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Dave seized upon the knob of the door and yanked hard. I seized on the railing and held on tight.

seize onto something/somebody	to grab onto someone or something	The beggar seized onto the well-dressed gentleman and demanded money. Tony seized onto the doorknob and gave it a hard jerk.

seize something up	to grab or take something	The crow seized the freshly hatched chick up and flew away. The huge bird seized up the tiny chick.
seize up	affected suddenly by something, such as laughter, coughing, sneezing, fits of rage, etc.	Suddenly, I was seized with a fit of coughing. Mary was seized with laughter at the sight of Ted in a clown suit.
seize up	to freeze or halt; to grind suddenly to a stop	The engine seized up, and the car coasted to a stop. My knee seized up in the middle of a football game.
seize up	to suddenly stop moving or working	I hit two keys at the same time and my computer just seized up. Her leg seized up and she had to be carried out.
seize up	to use an opportunity to do something that you want and not to worry about the future	Seize the day, young man. You may never get the chance to embark on such an adventure again.

seize something/somebody with something	to grab someone or something with something	The robot seized Roger with its mechanical claws. The dockworker seized the cable with a long hook.

select from something/somebody	to make a choice from a group of people or things	You will have to select from the people we have asked to interview with you today. They told me that I had to select from what you have in stock.
select somebody from something	to choose someone from a group of people	You will have to select a new secretary from the available pool of workers. I selected Ted from the applicants I had at the time.

select something/somebody as something	to choose someone or something to be something	The voters selected Alice as the county treasurer. We selected Acme as our main distributor.

select something/somebody for something/somebody	to choose someone or something for the benefit of someone or something	You need a helper, so I will select someone for you. Jane selected a car for her husband.

sell at something	[for something] to be marketed at a particular price	This coat formerly sold at twice this price. Next month, this will sell at a 60 percent markup.

sell out	to accept money to stop following your principles	So many musicians simply sell out to the demands of the industry and abandon their art.
sell out	to do something one normally would not do, in order to get money (usually used when talking about musicians, artists, etc.)	I liked this band when they first came out, but then they sold out.
sell out	to sell (an item) until there are none left	I'm sorry we sold out of that toy this morning.
sell out (of something)	to sell all of something, so that there is none left	We sold out of the souvenir T-shirts in the first couple of hours. During the summer the campgrounds are sold out each night. Her cruises regularly book up months in advance and almost always sell out.
sell out (to somebody)	to betray someone or something to someone	I think that you have sold out to the enemy!
sell out (to somebody)	to sell everything, such as all one's property or one's company, to someone	The farmer finally gave up and sold out to a large corporation. I refuse to sell out no matter what they offer me.
sell out (to)	He refused to sell out to a large corporation. He shouldn't have sold out to them.
sell out somebody/something	to stop being loyal to someone or something	He accused Congress of selling out the American people to lawyers who opposed the bill. I could sell you all out and go straight to the police with this information. Usage notes: often money is the advantage that is gotten: Anyone who would sell out his own country for money deserves to go to prison for life. Related vocabulary: sell somebody down the river.

sell somebody down !

sell somebody on something	to convince someone to do something; to convince someone to accept an idea	Mary sold me on ordering pizza for dinner. John sold Anne on switching long-distance phone companies.
sell something on !

sell somebody out	to betray someone; to reveal damaging information about someone	Bill told everything he knew about Bob, and that sold Bob down the river. You'll be sorry if you sell me out. Lefty sold out his friends, and we'll all soon be arrested.

sell something at something	to market something at a particular price	Do you think we can sell these things at four dollars each? We cannot sell these at ten times what we paid for them!
sell something at something	to market something at something or some place	We will try to sell our old kitchen sink at the flea market in Adamsville. He sold all his watermelons at the farmers market in town.

sell something for !

sell something off	to sell all of something	We ended up with a large stock of out-of-style coats and we had to sell them all off at a loss. We sold off all the excess stock.

sell something/somebody as something	to put someone or something up for consideration as something	The political party tried to sell the candidate as a responsible administrator. The sales force was told to sell the paint as the best available anywhere.

sell something/somebody short	to underestimate someone or something; to fail to see the good qualities of someone or something	This is a very good restaurant. Don't sell it short. When you say that John isn't interested in music, you're selling him short. Did you know he plays the violin quite well?

send (somebody) off	to have a goodbye party for someone	Mike's finally leaving. We're sending him off on Saturday.

send away for	I had to send away for a new part.

send for	He sent for his secretary. We sent for some books from home about the history of our country.

send over (to)	She sent me over to her office.

send down !

send somebody into something	to make someone go into something or some place	George sent me into the house for a hammer. The boys know where it is. He should have sent in the boys. George sent me in.

send somebody on !

send somebody to !

send something back	return (usually by mail)	My letter got sent back to me because I used the wrong stamp.

send something into something	to dispatch something, such as an order, to a company or other body making a public offer of goods	I sent the order in to the home office. I sent in the order.

send up !

sentence somebody to something
sentence somebody to something (for something)	[for a judge] to order someone to suffer confinement, death, or labor for committing a crime	The judge sentenced Roger to three years in prison for the crime. The judge sentenced him to hard labor.

separate (something) from (something else)
separate somebody from (somebody else)	to segregate people or things	The nurse separated the infected people from the healthy ones. Please separate the spoiled apples from the good ones.
separate something from something	Separate the yolk from the white of the egg. Separate the truth from fiction.

separate off (from something)	to move or head away from something	The road to the cabin separates off from the main road and goes along for a mile or two. It separates off about a mile from here.
separate something off from something	to remove something from something	Frank separated the cream off from the milk. Separate off the hens from the rooster.

separate something out of something	to remove something out from something	She used a filter to separate the dirt particles out of the water. A filter separated out the impurities.

separate something/somebody into something	to divide people or things into subdivisions	We had to separate the kids into smaller groups. Jane separated the apples into three groups by size.

serve notice (on somebody)	to formally or clearly announce something to someone	John served notice that he wouldn't prepare the coffee anymore. I'm serving notice that I'll resign as secretary next month.

set (somebody) back	to cost (someone)	The whole trip set us back $2,000.
set back	to hinder, slow down a progress

set (somebody) up	to arrange a meeting (with the purpose of getting people involved romantically)	Becky tried to set me up with her cousin, but it didn't work out.
set (somebody) up	to falsely incriminate someone	The killer claimed that he had been set up.
set somebody up	to trick, trap	The police set up the car thief by using a hidden camera.
set up	to start a business	She set up her own company 10 years ago.
set up (for)	I will set up a meeting for next week.

set aside	to reserve for later use

set down	to write down

set by !

set in !
set something in !

set off
set off	Less archaic form of "set out" or "set forth"
set off	to start a journey	Early Saturday morning we set off for the ski slopes.
set off	to make something (usually a bomb, alarm, etc.) go off, start, etc.; cause to explode; start a journey 	He accidentally set off the alarm by walking into the room.

set somebody's mind at ease (about something/somebody)	to make someone feel mentally comfortable about someone or something	Alice is upset. I will have to do something to set her mind at ease about the accident. Please set your mind at ease. Everything will be all right.

set something up	arrange, organize	Our boss set a meeting up with the president of the company.

set the stage for something	to arrange a stage for an act or scene of a production	The stage crew set the stage for the first act. They set the stage for the second scene while the orchestra played.
set the stage for something	to prepare something for some activity	The initial meeting set the stage for further negotiations. Your negative comments set the stage for another big argument.
set the stage for something	to prepare the way for something else to happen	This new information sets the stage for a long and interesting trial.
set the tone (for something)	if something someone says or does sets the tone for an event or activity, it establishes the way that event or activity will continue, especially the mood of the people involved (often + for) He was furious when she arrived late, and that set the tone for the whole evening.
set the tone (for something)	to establish a particular mood or character for something (Usage notes: sometimes used with an adjective before tone)	The governor's speech was intended to set the tone for the party's national convention next week. The announcement of last month's sales figures set an optimistic tone for the meeting.

settle (somebody) down	if the dust settles after an argument, a problem, or an event which has caused a lot of changes, the situation becomes calmer	We decided to let the dust settle before trying to deal with any other problems. You'd better wait until the dust settles before you mention anything else.
settle (somebody) down	to get someone to behave more calmly (Usage notes: often used as an order)	He was so upset that one of his brothers had to settle him down. OK, class, settle down.
settle down	One day they will settle down in a small cabin in the mountains. Will you please settle down and relax?
settle down	to accept responsibilities and behave in a more regular way than you have in the past	Larry met his wife in San Antonio, where they have settled down and started a family.
settle down	to calm down	Settle down! Now, children, it's time to settle down and start class. If you don't settle down, I'll send you all home.
settle down	to settle into a stable way of life; to get married and settle into a stable way of life	Tom, don't you think it's about time you settled down and stopped all of this running around? Bill and Ann decided to settle down and start a family.
settle down	to start living a "normal", routine life (especially after living a wild life beforehand)	All my rowdy friends have settled down.
settle down to something	to give something all of your attention (Usage notes: often said about a meal)	I settled down to read about the festival and what I could do there. After work, we all settle down to a home-cooked dinner.

settle (something) (out of court)	to end a disagreement and reach an agreement without having to go through trial in a court of justice	The plaintiff and defendant decided to settle before the trial. Mary and Sue settled out of court before the trial.

settle with somebody !

settle for	to accept something less than what one wanted	He wanted $20, but he settled for $15.
settle for something	to agree to accept something (even though something else would be better)	We wanted a redone, but settled for a blue one. \I\Ask your grocer for Wilson's canned corn - ;the best corn in cans. Don't settle for less.
settle for something	to agree to or accept something, although it is not exactly what you want	Patients will have to settle for fewer tests because rising costs have made them too expensive.

settle in	to become accustomed to one's new surroundings; to get used to living in a place or a new dwelling	I need a little time to settle in, then I can think about buying a car.
settle in	to begin to feel comfortable in a new place	When you start college, it takes a few weeks to settle in.

settle into something	to become comfortable in a new place or situation	Catherine had settled into their booth and was reading her menu. We settle into a routine of early morning workouts followed by lectures. The space shuttle settled into a 184-mile-high orbit.

settle on something	to decide on something	We've discussed the merits of all of them, and we've settled on this one. I can't settle on one or the other, so I'll buy both.
settle on something	to make a decision or come to an agreement about something	My parents finally settled on my punishment - I would use my summer wages to pay for the repairs. The two sides have not yet settled on a price.

settle up with somebody	to pay someone what one owes; to pay one one's share of something	I must settle up with Jim for the bike I bought for him. Bob paid the whole restaurant bill and we all settled up with him later.

sever with somebody !

sew up something	to complete one's dealings with or discussion of someone or something	It's time to sew this up and go home. I think we can sew up the shipping contract this afternoon and get on to someone else. Let's sew up this last matter and go.
sew up something	to remove all doubt about the successful result of something	Schall hopes to sew up the nomination for governor this week. The company hopes to have a deal sewn up by the end of the year.
sew up something	to stitch together an opening in someone or something	The surgeon sewed the patient up and pronounced the operation a success. This is torn. Can you sew up this rip?

shack up (with somebody)	to live with and have a sexual relationship with someone you are not married to	I was surprised to hear you're shacking up with Kathy.
shack up (with somebody)	to sleep or live with someone temporarily in a sexual relationship	They shacked up for over a year until her parents found out and stopped sending her money.

shackle somebody with something	to fetter or hobble someone with something, such as chains, etc.	The sheriff shackled the prisoner with handcuffs and leg irons. The prisoners were shackled with leg irons.

shades of somebody/something	something that you say when someone or something makes you think of another person or thing	We visited the university campus and had a few drinks in the bar. Shades of my student days.
shades of somebody/something	this suggests memories of another person or thing	The president's behavior suggests he has something to hide - shades of the Watergate scandal.

shag (off)	to depart	I gotta shag. It's late. Go on! Shag off! I gotta shag. Somebody's calling my name.

shame of it (all)	That is so shameful!; I am so embarrassed; I am shocked (Considerable use jocularly or as a parody. Compare this with For shame!) John: Good grief! I have a pimple! Always, just before a date. Andy: The shame of it all! Tom: John claims that he cheated on his taxes. Bill: Golly! The shame of it!

shame on !

shape somebody up	to get someone into good physical shape; to make someone behave or perform better	I've got to shape myself up to improve my health. The trainer was told that he'd have to shape up the boxer before the fight.
shape up	to assume a final form or structure	The game plan for the election was beginning to shape up. Her objectives began to shape up in her senior year.
shape up	to develop	How's your project shaping up? The state of the economy is shaping up as a major political issue. Everyone's waiting to see how the new football season will shape up in September.
shape up	to get into better physical condition	The astronauts shape up before a mission by working with small weights and doing exercises.
shape up	to improve your behavior or performance	He promised me he was going to shape up and stay out of trouble.
shape up	to improve; to reform	I want to get things shaped up around here. I guess I'd better shape up if I want to stay in school.

share something with somebody

share together	We shared a room together in college.

shed (some) light on something	to reveal something about something; to clarify something (Also with any)	This discussion has shed some light on the problem. Let's see if Ann can throw any light on this question.
shed on something !

shell out something	If an activity is like shelling peas, it is very easy for you	For Adam, learning to ski was like shelling peas.
shell out something	to pay money	The insurance giant estimates that in Texas alone it will have to shell out $85 million to settle these claims. How much does the company expect to shell out for a solution to the problem? Usage notes: usually said about large amounts of money.

shift for oneself	to get along by oneself; to support oneself	I'm sorry, I can't pay your rent anymore. You'll just have to shift for yourself. When I became twenty years old, I left home and began to fend for myself.

shine up to somebody	to try to gain someone's favor by being extra nice	John is a nice guy, except that he's always trying to shine up to the professor. Mary never tries to shine up to the manager.

ship somebody/something off to somewhere	to send someone or something to a place	When Pauline was twelve, her father shipped her off to relatives in Baltimore. The kids were arrested, convicted, and shipped off to reform school. Students should ship off their applications well before the deadline.

shoot off (one's mouth)	To speak without restraint (and often without tact) about something	She's always shooting off her mouth about how how successful her children are.

shoot out

shoot up	Jane shot up just after she turned thirteen.

shop around	compare prices	I want to shop around a little before I decide on these boots.
shop around	compare prices	It's always wise to shop around before buying anything.
shop around	to compare the price and quality of similar items before buying one	You should certainly shop around before buying a new computer.
shop around	To look for the best price	I like to shop around before I buy something.
shop around (for something)	to shop at different stores to find what you want at the best price	I've been shopping around for a new car, but they are all priced too high. You can find a bargain, but you'll have to shop around.

shore somebody up	to (figuratively) prop up or support someone	Mary's solid character and personality helped shore her up during her recent problems with the law. Everyone co-operated to shore up John when his mother died.
shore up something	to make something stronger by supporting it	Part of the roof collapsed, and emergency workers had to shore up walls to prevent further damage. Central banks try to shore the economy up by lowering interest rates.
shore up something	to prop up or support something	The fence fell over, so we shored it up with more posts. The storm weakened the foundation of our house, and we had to have workers shore up the house.

shouldn't happen to a dog	an expression of something that is so bad that no creature deserves it	Poor guy. That shouldn't happen to a dog. This cold I got shouldn't happen to a dog.

shout about something/somebody	to show one's pride or enthusiasm about someone or something (Usually with the object shifted to the front of the sentence)	That's really something to shout about. She's something to shout about.
shout about something/somebody	to yell about someone or something	Alice is shouting about Tom, the guy who stood her up. What are you shouting about?

shout at
shout at somebody

shout something from the rooftops	if you say you want to shout some news from the rooftops, you mean that you want to tell everyone about it because you are so excited	When I discovered I was pregnant, I wanted to shout it from the rooftops.
shout something from the rooftops	to tell people about something that excites you	Alex was so happy, he wanted to shout the news from the rooftops.

shout something/somebody down	to overwhelm someone or something by shouting	Mary was trying to speak, but Sally shouted her down. Ann brought up a very important suggestion, but Bob shouted it down. The lecturer had to shout down the entire audience to be heard.

shove one's way (somewhere)	to make a path through a crowd by pushing	The impatient man shoved his way through the crowd. The reporter shoved her way to the front of the crowd.

shove somebody around	to harass someone	Stop shoving me around! Who do you think you are? Do you think you can shove around just anybody?
shove somebody around	to push someone around	The bigger boys shoved him around easily because he is so small, Karen shoved around the little kids until they got mad at her.

shove something/somebody down somebody's throat	to force someone to accept something	Don't try to force that car down my throat! I don't want it! You can't force that nonsense down my throat! I don't want any more insurance, and I don't want anyone to shove any insurance down my throat. Mary isn't invited to my party, and I don't wish for anyone to ram her down my throat!
shove something/somebody down somebody's throat	to force someone to swallow something	The harsh nurse forced the medicine down the patient's throat. The zookeepers rammed the food down the python's throat.

show (somebody) around	To show someone where everything is in a city, neighborhood, etc.	I don't really know the city - Could you show me around?

show off	act extra special for people watching (usually boastfully)	He always shows off on his skateboard.
show off	brag or want to be admired	There's David showing off in his new sports car!
show off	Stop showing off.
show off	To brag; To be very proud about something	He just loves to show off his car, doesn't he?

show signs of something	to show hints or indications of something	I let the horse run at full speed until it began to show signs of tiring. Sally is showing signs of going to sleep.
show somebody a clean pair of heels	to go faster than someone else in a race	Butler showed them all a clean pair of heels as he raced for the finishing line.

show somebody to a seat	to lead or direct someone to a place to sit	May I show you to your seat, sir? The ushers showed us to our seats politely and efficiently.
show something to good advantage	to display the best features of something; to display something so that its best features are apparent	Put the vase in the center of the table and show it to good advantage. Having and using a large vocabulary shows your intelligence to good advantage.

show up	appear/arrive	We expected William to come but he didn't show up.
show up	To arrive	He showed up at her house at 4 o'clock in the morning.
show up	To show (someone) up; To outdo, to outperform, to make someone seem worse	The opening band showed the headliners up.
show up at	We didn't invite him - he justВ showed upВ at the party.
show up for (an event or activity)

shower something/somebody with something	to cover someone or something with cascades of something	Mary's friends showered her with gifts on her twenty-first birthday. The guests showered the bride and groom with confetti and rice.

shroud something/somebody in something	to wrap or conceal someone or something in something	They shrouded Mr. Carlson in sailcloth and prepared him for burial at sea. They shrouded the decision in a series of formalities.

shrug something off	to act as if something is unimportant or not a problem	Although constantly troubled by a lack of money, he was able to shrug it off with a joke. The runner has been trying hard to shrug off a back injury that doesn't seem to go away.
shrug something off	to ignore something unpleasant or offensive as if it meant something else	She shrugged off the criticism as harmless. I passed off the remark as misinformed. Bill scolded me, but I just passed it off.

shuck something off	to get rid of someone or something	she shucked all her bad habits off. Tom shucked off one girlfriend after another.
shuck something off	to take something off	Tom shucked his jacket off and sat on the arm of the easy chair. He shucked off his jacket.

shuffle off this mortal coil	to die (Often jocular or formal euphemism; Not often used in consoling someone)	Cousin Fred shuffled off this mortal coil after suffering a heart attack. When I shuffle off this mortal coil, I want to go out in style - ;bells, flowers, and a long, boring funeral.
shuffle off this mortal coil	to die (Usage notes: This phrase comes from the play Hamlet by William Shakespeare)	I really want to see the Coliseum before I shuffle off this mortal coil.

shush (up)	to be quiet	shush! I want to hear the weather. shush up and listen to the lecture.

shut down	To close permanently	They shut down that restaurant last year.

shut off something; shut something off

shut up	be silent, stop talking	Oh shut up you idiot!
shut up	To be/ make quiet	He just kept talking and talking. He never knows when to shut up.
shut up shop	to stop doing business, either temporarily or permanently	They were forced to shut up shop because they weren't getting enough customers.

shy away (from something/somebody)	to avoid someone or something	The dog shies away from John since he kicked it. I can understand why the dog would shy away.
shy away from (doing something)	To not do something because one is too shy/timid	My sister tends to shy away from things like that.
shy away from somebody	something that you say which means when you have had an unpleasant experience you are much more careful to avoid similar experiences in the future	After he left her she refused to go out with anyone else for a long time - once bitten, twice shy, I suppose.
shy away from somebody	to avoid someone	She shied away from reporters during her brief visit to this country.
shy away from something/doing something	to avoid something	I tend to shy away from big guitar solos on records. At first, some companies shied away from selling merchandise on the Internet, but not for long.

shy of something	having less of something than is needed or expected	The bill was four votes shy of a majority. He was a large man, just shy of six feet tall.

sic somebody/something on somebody	to cause someone or something to attack someone	I'm gonna sic Uncle Steve on you kids if you don't behave. He tried to sic the agency on her to draw attention away from himself.

sick (and tired) of somebody/something	annoyed by someone or something fed up (with somebody/something)	They visited so often that she was sick of them by the end of the summer. I'm sick and tired of hearing the same old excuses! Usage notes: usually said about something that you have accepted for too long.

sick (up)	to empty one's stomach; to vomit	I think I'm going to sick up. Isn't there supposed to be a barf bag in one of these seat pockets? He's got to sick, and there's no air sickness bag. Help!

sick at heart	very sad, unhappy, or upset	She was sick at heart, knowing that he was putting himself in great danger.

sick in bed	remaining in bed while (one is) ill	Tom is sick in bed with the flu. He's been sick in bed for nearly a week.

sick to death (of something/somebody)	totally disgusted with someone or something	I am sick to death of your constant bickering. This reporting about the scandals in the government just has me sick to death.
sick to death of something	extremely bored with something	We are sick to death of the constant talk of a baseball strike.
sick to your stomach	feeling like you are going to vomit	When you saw the way his ankle was broken, you got sick to your stomach.

side with (somebody)	To support (someone) in a conflict, etc.	When I found out that my sister and her friend were arguing, I sided with my sister.

sidle away (from something/somebody)	to avoid someone or something by moving to the side; to ease away from someone or something	The cowboy sidled away from the bar and drew his gun. He sidled away and snuck out the door.

sidle up (to something/somebody)	to move close to someone or something cautiously or furtively; to move closer to someone or something gradually	Tex sidled up to Dolly and said howdy in a soft, shy voice. Dolly sidled up and picked the cowboy's pocket.

sift something from something	to remove something from something by sifting	Fran sifted all the impurities from the flour before using it. Timmy sifted all the leaves from the sand in his sandbox.

sift something out of something	to get rid of something in something else by sifting	Dan sifted the impurities out of the flour. Walter sifted out the foreign matter.

sift something through something	to make something pass through something such as a sieve	she sifted the powdered sugar through a strainer. Please sift the soil through this screen and watch for bits of pottery.
sift through something	to examine all parts of something	The fire inspector sifted through the rubble, looking for clues to the start of the fire. We sifted through all the papers in the old trunk, but we did not find what we were looking for.

sigh about something	to release a deep breath, indicating anxiety, distress, or relief about something	What are you sighing about? she sighed about her illness and then shifted her thoughts to something else.

sign (somebody) up	to join or invite someone to join a group or organization	Kathy signed up for the soccer team this year. The team signed him up for two years. Local officials worked to sign up students to the summer jobs program. Usage notes: often used when someone puts their signature on an official document.

sign (up) with something/somebody	to enter into an agreement with someone or a group	I signed up with Tom and John to crew their ship in the regatta. Did you sign with the office equipment supplier yet?

sign away something	to give up your claim to something by writing your name on a document sign over something	He tricked her into signing away the property that she intended to leave to her friend. You're signing your rights away when you sign that form. Usage notes: sometimes used in the form sign your life away (give up all your rights): It felt like we had to sign our lives away to get a loan from the bank.
sign something away	to sign a paper in which one gives away one's rights to something	Valerie signed her rights away. she signed away her claim to the money.

sign for somebody	to sign something, using one's own signature in place of someone else's signature; to sign something, using another person's name, adding the phrase "by [one's own name];" He's not here	I will sign for him. Where do I sign? Who will sign for Mr. Wilson?
sign for something	to sign a piece of paper indicating that one has received something	Would you sign for this, please? Ted signed for the package and opened it up.
sign something for somebody	to sign a paper for another person, using that person's name, adding the phrase "by [one's own name]."	When the delivery comes, will you please sign my name for me? I signed Ted's name for him.
sign something for somebody	to sign one's signature on a paper in place of someone else's signature	Would you please sign this for me? I can't sign it right now. Would you sign it for me?

sign in	Did you remember to sign in?
sign in	To gain access to something by writing your name.
sign in	to indicate that one has arrived somewhere and at what time by signing a piece of paper or a list	Please sign in so we will know you are here. Did you remember to sign in this time?
sign in	to write your name on an official list when entering a place (Usage notes: sometimes used in the form sign someone in (to write someone's name on an official list when they enter a place)	Messengers are required to sign in at the front desk. An elegantly dressed young woman signed us in at the door.
sign somebody in	to record that someone has arrived somewhere and at what time by recording the information on a paper or a list	I will sign you in. What is your name? Do I have to sign in everyone?
sign something in	to record that something has been received at a particular time by recording the information on a paper or a list	I have to sign this package in, then I will be right with you. should I sign in this shipment now?

sign of the times	something that signifies the situation evident in the current times	Your neighbor's unmowed grass is just a sign of the times. Nobody really cares any longer.

sign off	to end a television or radio broadcast	Both news programs came on the air at 4:36 p;m. and both signed off at 4:59 p.m. What will the network air on Tuesdays now that one of its most popular programs is signing off?
sign off	to quit doing what one has been doing and leave, go to bed, quit trying to do something, etc.	I have to sign off and get to bed. See you all. When you finally sign off tonight, please turn out all the lights.
sign off	[for a broadcaster] to announce the end of programming for the day; [for an amateur radio operator] to announce the end of a transmission	Wally signed off and turned the transmitter off. Channel 43 failed to sign off at the scheduled time last night.
sign off (on something)	to officially agree to or support something	Mary has to sign off on any expenses over $2,500. A judge must sign off on a search of anyone's property. If all parties sign off, the settlement would end eight years of court battles. Usage notes: often used when someone agrees to something by putting their signature on an official document.
sign off on (something)	To approve	We have to get upper management to sign off on the proposal this week.
sign off on something	to sign a paper, indicating that one has finished with something or agrees with the state of something	The publisher signed off on the book and sent it to be printed. I refuse to sign off on this project until it is done correctly.

sign on	to announce the beginning of a broadcast transmission	The announcer signed on and then played "The Star-Spangled Banner." We usually sign on at six in the morning.
sign on (with something/somebody) (as something)	to join up with someone or something in a particular capacity by signing a contract or agreement	I signed on with the captain of the Felicity Anne as first mate. Roger signed on as manager for the new store.
sign on the dotted line	to formally agree to something by signing a legal document	According to promoter Andrew James, the band has signed on the dotted line and will be playing at the Coliseum on November 2, 3 and 4.
sign on the dotted line	to formally agree to something	We signed on the dotted line Wednesday and will move into our new house next week.
sign on the dotted line	to indicate one's agreement or assent by placing one's signature on a special line provided for that purpose (The line may be solid or dotted)	I agreed to the contract, but I haven't signed on the dotted line yet. When you have signed on the dotted line, please give me a call.
sign on the dotted line	to indicate one's agreement to something	Okay. I agree to your terms. I'll sign on the dotted line. He is thinking favorably about going with us to Canada, but he hasn't signed on the bottom line.
sign somebody on	to employ someone; to recruit someone as an employee	How many workers did the manager sign on? The construction company signed on ten new workers.

sign out	to indicate that one is leaving a place or going out temporarily by signing a piece of paper or a list	I forgot to sign out when I left. Please sign out every time you leave.
sign out	to write your name on an official list when leaving a place (Usage notes: sometimes used in the form sign someone out ( to write someone's name on an official list when they leave a place)	Make sure you sign out if you leave the office after 8 p;m. Can you sign me out, Mitch?
sign somebody out of some place	to make a record of someone's departure from some place	Did someone sign you out of the factory, or did you just open the door and leave? I signed out those two who just left.
sign something out of some place	to make a record of the borrowing of something from some place	Dave signed the tape recorder out of the library. Dave signed out the tape recorder as well as some blank tapes.

sign over something	to give up your rights to something by writing your name on a document sign away something	He signed over his death benefits in exchange for cash. She agreed to sign the deed over to me.


sign somebody up (for something)	to record the agreement of someone, including oneself, to participate in something	Has anyone signed you up for the office picnic? Can you sign up Liz for the party?
sign somebody up (with something/somebody)	to record the agreement of someone to join someone, a group of people, or an organization	I want to sign George up with our softball team. Tom signed up his friends with the agency.
sign up (for something)	To register	I signed up for an intensive English course in New York City.
sign up for	Did you remember to sign up for the class?

sign something over (to somebody)	to sign a paper granting the rights to or ownership of something to a specific person	Larry signed all the rights to his book over to the publisher. He signed over all the rights to the publisher.

signal (to) somebody (to do something)	[for someone] to give someone a command or instruction using a signal	The traffic cop signaled me to stop. The state trooper signaled the driver to pull over to the side of the road.

signal for somebody	to make a sign for someone to come	I signaled for the waiter and got the check. Ted signaled for the parking lot attendant.

silt up	[for a body of water] to become filled with silt	The river moved too fast to silt up. The lake silted up in a very few years.

similar to

simmer down	to decrease in intensity (As boiling dies down when the heat is lowered or removed)	The hectic activity of the day finally simmered down. When things simmer down in the fall, this is a much nicer place.
simmer down	[for someone] to become calm or less agitated	I wish you would simmer down. Please simmer down, you guys!

sin against something/somebody	to offend or desecrate someone or something sacred or revered	The critic said that Walter sinned against the poet when he read the poem in a sarcastic manner. I would say that Walter sinned against poetry, not just one poet.

sing along (with something/somebody)	to sing with someone or with the accompaniment of some instrument(s)	Harry played all the old songs and everybody sang along. Let's sing along with Mary. She knows some good songs.

sing for !

sing of something/somebody	to tell about or sing a song about someone or something	The folksinger sang of Paul Bunyan. They all sang of happier times in the past.

sing out	to sing louder	sing out, please. This is a very large hall. The sopranos will have to sing out more.
sing out (something)	(slightly formal) to make known	Adler tried in a scholarly way to sing out the joys of studying philosophy.
sing out (something)	to shout or call loudly	He'd bring his daughters hot chocolate in their tent, singing out, "Time to get up!"
sing something out	to sing or announce something loudly	The teacher sang the names out loud and clear. she sang out "The Star-Spangled Banner" in a loud voice.

sing somebody to !
sing to something/somebody	to sing a song and direct it at someone or something	The singer sang to a man in the front row, and he was very embarrassed by it. Claire sang to an older audience and put many of them to sleep.

sing together	[for people] to coordinate their singing	Let's sing together now. Everyone should watch the conductor and follow the beat. You have to sing together if you want your words to be understood.

single out somebody/something	to choose someone or something for special attention	Rosa was singled out by the teacher because her art project was so creative. I don't know why they singled it out, but my report was severely criticized at the meeting.
single something/somebody out (for something)	to choose or pick someone or something for something; to select an eligible person or thing for something	The committee singled her out for a special award. We singled out Liz for special honors.

sink back (into something)	to lean back and relax in something, such as a soft chair	I can't wait to get home and sink back into my easy chair. He sank back and went to sleep almost immediately.

sink below something	to descend below a certain level	The boat sank below the surface of the water and was gone. The temperature sank below the freezing mark again today.

sink down	to sink or submerge	The sun sank down and darkness spread across the land. She sat in the chair and sank down, enjoying her moment of relaxation.

sink in	to become clear/evident; To become felt/understood	The truth that she would never see her grandfather again began to sink in.
sink in	to sink, submerge, or descend into something	How long will it take the water to sink in? It might take days for the oil to sink in, so you have time to clean it up.
sink in	[for knowledge] to be understood	I heard what you said, but it took a while for it to sink in. I pay careful attention to everything I hear in calculus class, but it usually doesn't sink in.
sink something in (to) something/somebody	to drive or push something into someone or something	The brave hero sank the wooden stake into the vampire. The hero sank in the stake.
sink something in (to) something/somebody	to invest time or money in someone or something (Sometimes implying that it was wasted)	You would not believe how much money I've sunk into that company! She sank in a lot of money, but it was all wasted.

sink into !

sink to (doing) something	to lower oneself to doing something bad or mean	I never thought he would sink to doing that. There is nothing that Max wouldn't sink to.

siphon off something	to embezzle or steal something a little at a time	The teller had been siphoning money off for years. she siphoned off a few dollars from the collection every week or so.
siphon off something	to suck or draw a liquid off from something	Harry siphoned the cream off the milk. He siphoned off the cream.
siphon off something	to take something that was intended for someone or something else	The dictator and his close friends siphoned off up to 20 percent of the annual budget. The donated food was mostly siphoned off and sold, while the needy got almost nothing. Usage notes: sometimes used without off: A third-party candidate siphoned southern support. She siphoned more than $15,000 from a patient's trust fund.

sit around/sit by	to sit without doing anything, used primarily in the phrase "to sit around doing nothing"; This is a little different from "to sit by" which implies that someone is "sitting around and not stopping something from happening	Don't just sit around. Do something!"They sat by and did nothing"" would imply that they COULD HAVE done something but didn't.

sit back

sit down	to take a seat	Please come in and sit down. Please, sit down and relax.

sit in for (somebody)	to assume someone's duties while he/she is away	I'm sitting in for my boss this week.
sit in on
sit in on (a meeting, etc.)	to attend as an observer	You guys mind if I sit in on your discussion? The head of our marketing team will be sitting in on this meeting.

sit out	to not participate	I'm going to sit this game out. I'm not playing. I better sit out this time.

sit still for something	to remain idle rather than act to prevent something; to endure or tolerate something	I won't sit still for that kind of treatment. she would not sit still for an insult like that.
sit still for something	to remain seated without fidgeting during something	The child could hardly be expected to sit still for the opera. Timmy would not sit still for his haircut.

sit up	I sat up and read a book. I wouldn't get such terrible backaches if I sat up properly.

size something/somebody up	to observe someone or something to get information; to check someone or something out	The comedian sized the audience up and decided not to use his new material. I like to size up a situation before I act.
size up somebody/something	to examine someone or something so you can make a judgment about them	After sizing up the opposition, Abe suggested a strategy. Warren looked the man over, trying to size him up.

skate around	to skate here and there in no particular direction	Let's go over to the pond and skate around. We will skate around for a while until we get too cold.
skate around something/somebody	to circle someone or something while skating	The children skated around their instructor until she was satisfied with their form. We skated around the post in a circle.
skate around something/somebody	to skate to one side or the other of someone or something	Somehow I managed to skate around the child without knocking her down. I skated around the tree limb and avoided an accident.

skate on something	to skate on a particular surface	You can't skate on that ice! It's too thin. Don't skate on the ice until it has been scraped smooth.

sketch out something	to create a rough idea or image of something by sketching or some other means (Does not necessarily require an actual sketch)	Sally sketched the furniture arrangement out so we could get an idea of what it was to look like. Would you sketch out your ideas, please?
sketch out something	to describe something in a general way	Dean sketched out a rough plan of where we should go and what we should see while we were there. The president sent the defense secretary to the Senate today to sketch in details of the program.

sketch something in	to draw in the image of someone or something	I sketched a figure of a woman in so that she appears to be standing beneath the tree. I'll sketch in the house in the upper left corner.

skid across something	to slip or glide across something, such as ice or wet pavement	The car skidded across the pavement and crashed into a tree. Our bus skidded across the icy bridge and ran into a ditch on the other side.

skim off something	to go through something hastily; to read through something hastily	She skimmed through the catalogs, looking for a nice gift for Gary. I will skim through your manuscript and see whether it looks promising.
skim off something	to take something valuable	The colleges with very high standards skim off the best high school graduates. State and local governments skim tax money off the company's profits.
skim something off (of) something	to remove a portion of something of value, such as money, from an account (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The auditor was skimming a few dollars a day off the bank's cash flow. Kelly skimmed off a few dollars each day.
skim something off (of) something	to scoop something off the surface of something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The cook skimmed the fat off the stew. The cook skimmed off the fat.

skim over something	to glide across something	The sailboat skimmed over the waves like a bird. The bird skimmed over the treetops, darting and dodging.
skim over something	to go over or review something hastily	I just skimmed over the material and still got an A on the test! Please skim over chapter four for Thursday.

skimp on something	to use too little of something; to save something by using less of it than needed for something	Please don't skimp on the gravy. i like my potatoes swimming in it. They skimped on quality a little when they furnished the lobby.

skip (out)	to leave; to run away without doing something, such as paying a bill	The guy skipped when the waitress wasn't looking. Fred skipped out, leaving me with the bill.
skip out (on somebody)	to suddenly leave someone	Our roommate skipped out on us just before the rent was due.
skip out (on something)	to avoid something	He's been skipping out on hockey practice to go skateboarding.
skip out (on something/somebody)	to sneak away from someone or some event; to leave someone or an event suddenly or in secret	I heard that Bill skipped out on his wife. I'm not surprised. I thought he should have skipped out long ago.
skip out with something	to leave and take something with one; to steal something	The hotel guest skipped out with the towels. someone skipped out with the petty cash box. skip over someone or something not to choose someone or something next in line. she skipped over me and chose the next one in line. I skipped over the red ones and took a blue one.

skip off (with something)	to leave and take something with one	The little kid with the freckles skipped off with a candy bar. He took the candy bar I offered him and skipped off.

skip over somebody/something	to omit or not choose someone or something	I skipped over the boring parts of the exhibition. The director skipped over me when choosing a managing editor.

skirmish with something/somebody	to have a minor fight with someone, a group, or something	Tim skirmished a bit with his brother and then ran into the house. I don't want to skirmish with the committee.

slack off	to become less severe or extreme	If this rain would slack off, we could finish the work outside.
slack off	to not work as hard/efficiently as always	John has been slacking off recently.
slack off	to taper off; to reduce gradually	Business tends to slack off during the winter months. The storms begin to slack off in April.
slack off	to work less hard than is usual or necessary	Workers tend to slack off on Mondays and Fridays.
slack off	[for someone] to become lazy or inefficient	Near the end of the school year, Sally began to slack off, and her grades showed it. John got fired for slacking off during the busy season.

slack up (on something)	to release the pressure or tension on something	Slack up on the rope a bit, will you? Please slack off!

slam into something/somebody	to crash into someone or something	The race car - ;out of control - ;slammed into the stands. The bus slammed into a truck.

slam something down (on something)	to bang something down onto something	She slammed her fist down on the table in anger. Karen slammed down her fist onto the table.
slam something/somebody down	to drive or strike someone or something downward	The wrestler slammed his opponent down hard. He slammed down his opponent and injured him.

slant against something	to rest obliquely against something	The bookcase slants against the wall, and it should be straight. The lumber was left slanted against the garage.
slant something against something/somebody	to bias something against someone or something; to twist information so it is against someone or something	The writer slanted the story against the innocent people of the town. The reporter slanted her story against one political party.

slant something toward something/somebody	to bias something toward someone or something; to twist information so it favors someone or something	The writer slanted the story toward the plaintiff's charges. The reporter slanted her story in favor of one political party.
slant toward something/somebody	to incline toward someone or something	The scenery slanted toward the actors and looked as if it would fall. Everything in your sketch slants toward the right.

slap against something/somebody	[for something] to flap or strike against someone or something	The flag kept slapping against Ed, making it hard for him to remain at attention. The awning slapped against the side of the house.
slap something against something/somebody	to flap or strike something onto someone or something	The wind slapped the branch against Walter. The gusts from the storm slapped the shutters against the side of the house.

slap in !
slap somebody in something	to put or throw someone in jail or prison	The sheriff slapped the crooks in jail. Do you want me to slap you in jail?

slap somebody down	to cause someone to fall by striking with the open hand	she became enraged and slapped him down when he approached her again. Liz slapped down the insulting wretch.
slap somebody down	to squelch someone; to rebuke or rebuff someone	I had a great idea, but the boss slapped me down. Don't slap down people without hearing what they have to say.
slap somebody/something down	to refuse to accept someone's plan or idea	The judge slapped down every objection raised by the defense attorney. They applied for a permit and the building department slapped them down.

slap somebody on something	to slap a particular part of someone	Gerald was always slapping his friends on the back. He slapped himself on the knee and laughed very loudly.
slap something on	Go to slap something onto someone or something.
slap something on	to dress in something hastily	Henry slapped a shirt on and went out to say something to the garbage hauler. He slapped on a shirt and ran to the bus stop.
slap something on somebody	to serve someone with a legal paper or citation	The strange man came into the office and slapped a subpoena on Mary. I will slap a citation on you for speeding if you don't stop arguing.

slap something down	to strike downward with something flat in one's hand	she slapped the dollar bill down in great anger and took her paper cup full of water away with her. Karen slapped down the money that the bailiff demanded.

slap something onto something/somebody	to place something onto someone or something by slapping	Tim slapped a sign onto Gary that said "kick me." Tim came up to Gary's back and slapped on a sign.

slash (out) at somebody	to thrust out at someone with a knife or something similar, with the intent of cutting	The attacker slashed out at his victim and then ran away. Max slashed at the cop with a pocketknife.

slate something/somebody for something	to schedule someone or something for some thing or a particular time	They slated me for a trip to Columbia, Missouri, in August. Wally slated the meeting room for his presentation.

slated to do something scheduled to do something	(Typically: be ~; have someone ~;)	Mary is slated to go to Washington in the fall. We are slated to leave in November.

slave away (at something)	to work very hard (doing something)	I'm tired of slaving away at this and getting nowhere. I'm slaving away for $7.00 an hour and have no prospects for the future.

slave over something	to stand over something, working at it very hard, typically cooking over a hot stove	I've been slaving over this hot stove for hours to cook this meal! Ted slaved over his special dessert for hours.

sled down something	to ride down something on a sled	I love to sled down the hill in the winter. This hill is too steep to sled down safely.

sled over something	to travel over something, such as snow, in a sled	We sledded rapidly over the fresh snow, scooting down the hill. We wanted to sled over the new snow, but we had to wait until Uncle Herman had taken a picture of it for his scrapbook.

sleep around !

sleep in	I slept in this morning.
sleep in	to sleep longer than normal	I slept until 11:00 AM this morning.

sleep on (something)	to think about something (overnight)	Let me sleep on it, and tomorrow I'll let you know what I decide.

sleep over	to stay somewhere for the night (informal)	You should sleep over tonight if the weather is too bad to drive home.
sleep over	to sleep at someone else's house	Mary slept over last night. = Mary slept here last night.

slice in(to something)	to cut into something, usually with a knife or something similar	Betty sliced into the cake and discovered it was chocolate all the way through. It wasn't until she sliced in that she found out what kind of cake it was.

slice something off	to cut something off with slicing motions	Sue sliced the dead branches off with a tree saw. Karen sliced off a nice piece of turkey.

slice something/somebody up	to cut someone or something up into slices	The blades of the lawn mower can slice you up if you get too close. The sharp blades sliced up Bobby's rubber ball.

slick something down	to brush or comb down hair, usually with some sort of dressing or water	He used something gooey - ;grease or something - ;to slick his hair down. Please slick down your hair. You look a mess.

slick something up	to tidy up something or some place	I have to slick this house up a little. Please slick up this room before company gets here.

slide along	to slip or glide along	The sled slid along at a good clip down the gently sloping hill. We slid along on the icy roads and had a hard time stopping and turning.

slide around	to slip or skid around	Many cars slide around on the roads when they are icy. The pedestrians were sliding around on the icy pavement.
slide something around	to push, twist, or turn something around (The thing must be movable, but not often on wheels)	Please slide the carton around and look at the address on the other side. Can you slide the refrigerator around so I can clean the back of it?

slide by	to get along with a minimum of effort	she didn't do a lot of work - ;she just slid by. Don't just slide by. Put in some effort.

slide down from something	to slip down on something from a higher place	Beth slid down from the top of the mound. The boys slid down from the roof of the shed and got their pants all dirty.
slide down something	to slip down something, such as a pole	The fire captain slid down the pole and ran to the engine. Please don't slide down the stairs. You'll ruin the carpet.

slide into something	to slip or glide into something, as a car going into a ditch	It was raining hard, and car after car slid into the ditch at the sharp turn near Wagner Road. Mary's car slid right into the side of a bus.
slide something into something	to insert something into something effortlessly	Henry slid the end of the seat-belt buckle into its holder and started the car. slide in the buckle and make sure it's tight.

slide out of something	to slip or glide out of something without much effort	Mary slid out of the car and ran to the front door. The CD-ROM slid out of the computer.
slide something out of something	to cause something to slip or glide out of something without much effort	The hunter slid his knife out of its sheath and got ready to skin the deer. He slid out the heavy box.

slim down	to become thinner; to lose weight	You have slimmed down a lot since last spring break. You have really slimmed down a lot since I last saw you. I need to eat less so I can slim down. He slimmed down quite a bit after he had his health problem.
slim somebody down	to cause someone to lose weight	They started to slim her down in the hospital, but she gained the weight back as soon as she got out. The dietitian slimmed down all the patients under his care.

sling something at something/somebody	to heave or toss something at someone or something	The child slung a handful of mud at his playmate. Who slung this muddy mess at the side of the house?

sling something out	to throw something away	Just sling all that old junk out, if you will. sling out that stuff into the trash!
sling something out	to toss or heave something outward	The fishermen slung their nets out into the water. They slung out their nets.

sling/throw mud at somebody	if someone slings mud at another person, they try to make other people have a low opinion of them by saying unpleasant things about them	Companies should think carefully before slinging mud at someone who may respond with a libel action costing millions of dollars.

slink around	to creep or slither around furtively	The cat slunk around, waiting for a chance to get at the bird. Don't slink around like that. Someone is likely to take you for a robber.

slink away	to creep or slither away furtively	The fox slunk away, leaving the henhouse as quietly as such a thing is possible. I hope that the skunk will slink away as quietly as it came.

slink in(to something)	to creep into something	The cat slunk into the hallway and lay down in the middle of the floor. I left the door ajar and a cat slunk in.

slink off	to creep away furtively	Carl was embarrassed and tried to slink off, but the ushers spotted him. The boys slunk off from the picnic and smoked some cigarettes.

slink out (of some place)	to creep out of some place furtively	The fox slunk out of the henhouse just as the farmer came out. It slunk out and got away.

slip out	To sneak out; To leave (a place, etc.) quietly/without making a sound	He must have slipped out while the security guard wasn't looking.

slip through the net	to not be caught or dealt with by the system that should be catching or dealing with you	The system is failing and mental patients who badly need help are still slipping through the net. Innocent people have been falsely convicted while the guilty ones may be slipping through the net.

slip up	To make a mistake	The press secretary slipped up and told the reporters more than he was supposed to.
slip up	You must not slip up again.

slither along	to slink or crawl along	The snake slithered along, unmindful of our presence. A pair of otters slithered along playfully.

slither away	to sneak or crawl away, like a snake	The little lizards slithered away soundlessly. The snake slithered away while Maggie was still screaming.

slob up	SI to eat	What time do you people slob up around here? Fred stopped slobbing up long enough to change the channel on the TV set.

slobber (all) over something/somebody	to drool on someone or something (See also slobber over something)	The dog slobbered over the child. It was just being friendly. Jenny has slobbered all over her dress.
slobber over something	to drool with delight or eagerness before or while eating something (See also slobber over someone or something)	The dog was slobbering over a chunk of meat when the cat came in and hissed at the dog.
slobber over something/somebody	to drool with delight or eagerness at the thought of someone or something (Based on slobber over something; See also slobber (all) over someone or something)	Fred was slobbering over Donna as she lay sunbathing in a tiny bikini. Jamie was slobbering over Mary's new car.

slog/sweat/work your guts out	to wade or trudge through something, such as mud or snow	Do I have to slog through the snow to go to school? Can't you drive me? When I was your age, I slogged through snow twice this deep to get to school.
slog/sweat/work your guts out	to work very hard or to use a lot of effort to do something	You've got this wonderful man slogging his guts out for you, and all you do is criticize him! After working his guts out at the gym, he spoilt it all by going straight to the pub.

slop around	[for a liquid] to splash or rush around in a container	The water was slopping around in the bottom of the boat even though the lake we were traveling on was calm. There is some coffee left. I hear it slopping around in the bottom of the pot.
slop around	[for someone] to splash around in a body of liquid, such as a bath	Timmy was in his bath, slopping around and singing. Bob is out in the pool, slopping around.

slop out (of something)	[for a liquid] to spill or splash out of a container	some of the orange juice slopped out of the container, making a mess on the table. some milk slopped out. Please clean it up.

slop over	[for a liquid] to splash out of or overflow a container	The milk slopped over and messed up the carpet. Her cup slopped over and spilled its contents on the kitchen table.
slop something over something	to spill or splash some liquid onto something	He slopped the starting fluid over the charcoal and lit it. The artist slopped some grape juice over the canvas and proceeded to spread it around in an artistic fashion.

slop something around	to spill portions of a liquid here and there	Don't slop the milk around as you pour it. Please don't slop around the paint while you work.

slop something on(to) something/somebody	to spill or splash a liquid onto someone or something	Don't slop the pancake batter onto yourself. Who slopped paint on the floor?

slope (down) toward something	to slant downward toward something	The backyard slopes down toward the river. It slopes toward the water.

slope away from something	to slant downward and away from something	The lawn sloped away from the patio toward the riverbank. The porch sloped away from the house at a very slight angle.

slope down (to something or some place)	to slant downward toward something or some place from a higher level	The wide white beach sloped down to the azure water. The yard sloped down, making a lovely view from the living room.

slosh around	to move or splash through a liquid, usually standing on one's feet	Billy sloshed around in the wading pool. The kids have been sloshing around in puddles again.
slosh around	[for a liquid] to rush or splash around in an enclosure or container	The milk sloshed around in the pitcher and splashed over a little bit. The fluid sloshed around, making a splashing sound.
slosh something around	to cause a liquid to rush or splash in a container	The chef sloshed the dressing around a few times and poured it on the salad. The chef sloshed around the dressing and poured it on the salad.

slosh over	[for a liquid] to splash over its container	The water in the wading pool sloshed over and made the grass slippery. Don't fill the glass too full. It will slosh over.
slosh something (all) over something/somebody	to spill or splash a liquid over someone or something	Laura tripped and sloshed the grape juice all over Martha. Martin sloshed pancake batter over the side of the stove.

slosh something on(to) something/somebody	to splash or spill a liquid onto someone or something	Betty sloshed the charcoal lighter fluid on Fred, and he went in to wash it off. Then she sloshed the fluid onto the charcoal. slosh on some more.

slosh through something	[for a person] to wade or splash through something	The little kids sloshed through every puddle on their way home. We sloshed through the stream, ruining our shoes and soaking our cuffs.

slouch around	to move around with a stooped or bent body (one may slouch because of age, illness, fatigue, depression, fear, or with the intention of not being observed)	she is slouching around because she is tired. Don't you slouch around when you are tired?

slouch behind something	to remain behind something, slouching with depression, fear, or the intent of not being observed	Jim slouched behind a chair where no one could see him. A weary clerk slouched behind the counter, wanting a nap more than anything else.

slouch down	to slump or droop down	Don't always slouch down, Timmy! Stand up straight. I slouch down because I am tired.
slouch down (in something)	to sink or snuggle down into something, trying to become less visible or more comfortable	Please don't slouch down in your chair, Tim. He can't sit in anything without slouching down.

slouch over	to lean or crumple and fall to one side; [for someone] to collapse in a sitting position	He slouched over and went to sleep in his chair. When he slouched over, I thought something was wrong.

slough off something	to brush or rub something off	The snake sloughed its old skin off. It sloughed off its skin.
slough off something	to ignore or disregard a negative remark or incident	I could see that the remark had hurt her feelings, but she just pretended to slough it off. Liz sloughed off the remark.
slough off something	to ignore something or behave as if it was unimportant	Politicians sloughed off public anger over the hospital cutbacks until several newspapers ran articles about it. He wrecked the car and then tried to slough it off like it was nothing.

slow down	to (make something) move more slowly	Hey, could you please slow down! I'm finding it hard to keep up.
slow down	to decrease speed; to go slower	Please slow down. You are going too fast. You're going to fast. Please slow down.

slow off !

slow on !

slow something/somebody up	to cause someone or something to reduce speed	I'm in a hurry. Don't try to slow me down. Please slow up the train. There are sheep near the track.
slow up	to go slower; to reduce speed in order for someone or something to catch up	slow up a little! I can't keep up with you! Please slow up. I can't follow your lecture when you talk so fast.

slug out !

sluice something down	to rinse something down; to flood the surface of something with water or other liquid to clean it	John sluiced the driveway down. Karen sluiced down the garage floor.

sluice something out	to rinse something out; to flood the inside of something to clean it	Sluice the wheelbarrow out, will you? Please sluice out the wheelbarrow.

slump down	[for someone] to collapse and fall down; [for someone] to crumple	The shot hit Max and he slumped down. Suddenly, Mr. Wilson slumped down in pain.
slump down in(to) something	[for someone] to bend down or collapse into something, such as a chair or bed	Gary grabbed at his chest and slumped down into the bed. He slumped down into the chair and draped himself over the arm.

slump over	[for someone] to collapse and fall over forward in a sitting position	Just after the gunshot, Bruno slumped over and slid from his chair.

slur over something	to avoid saying difficult or crucial words by mumbling them; to speak over words unclearly	The speaker slurred over so many words that we didn't know what she was saying. Unfortunately, Ted slurred over many of the important parts of his speech.
slur over something	to avoid talking about or mentioning an issue	The mayor slurred over the major issue of the day. she slurred over the major problems.

smart at something	to suffer the pains of something	Over an hour later she was still smarting at his cruel remarks. For many days Ted smarted at the scolding he got.

smart from something	to get a stinging pain from something	His arm smarted from many mosquito bites. Her legs smarted from the scratches she got from walking through the briars.
smart from something	to suffer mental distress from something	She smarted from wounded vanity. He smarted for hours from the rude rebuff.

smart mouth somebody	who makes wisecracks; a cocky person who speaks out of turn	Don't be a smart mouth with me! Mr. Atkins is going to get a reputation as a smart mouth.

smart under something	to suffer stinging pain under something	The sailor's back smarted under the blows of the lash. Ted smarted under the lash for his wrongdoings.

smarten up	to get smarter; to become more alert and knowing	You had better smarten up if you want to survive around here. I knew he would smarten up sooner or later.

smash into	The car smashed into the side of a bus.
smash into something	to crash into something; to bump or crash into something	Judy smashed into the coffee table and hurt her leg. The car smashed into the side of a bus and caused a lot of damage.

smash out of something	to break [one's way] out of something	The prisoner smashed out of his cell and ran. The horse smashed out of its stable.

smash something in	to crush something inward; to make something collapse inward by striking it	Andy gave one good kick and smashed the box in. Liz smashed in the window.

smash something up	to break something up; to destroy something	I hope the children don't smash any of the good china up if we use it tonight. The driver fell asleep and smashed up the car.

smash through something	to break [one's way] through some sort of barrier	The fleeing car smashed through the police barrier. Max got angry and smashed through the office door.

smear campaign (against somebody)	a campaign aimed at damaging someone's reputation by making accusations and spreading rumors	The politician's opponents are engaging in a smear campaign against him. Jack started a smear campaign against Tom so that Tom wouldn't get the manager's job.

smear something on(to) something/somebody	to spread or rub something onto someone or something	Judy asked Jeff to smear the sun lotion onto her, and he was very happy to do so. she smeared on the lotion. Jane smeared a little on.

smear something/somebody with something	to damage the reputation of someone or something by spreading serious charges or rumors	He smeared his opponent with all sorts of charges. The speaker smeared the entire city with his criticism.
smear something/somebody with something	to spread or rub someone or something with some substance	Bitty smeared Bobby with mud and made him very angry. You should smear that burn with lotion. He smeared himself with grease and ruined his shirt.

smell (somebody, something, or an animal) out	to locate someone, something, or an animal by smelling or as if by smelling	The dog smelled the crook out from the place in the alley where he was hiding. The dog smelled out the raccoon.

smell of something	to have the smell of something; to smell like something	This house smells of onions. Her cooking always smells of entirely too much garlic.

smell something up	to cause a bad or strong odor in a place or on something	Your cooking sure smelled this place up! The spoiled meat really smelled up the house!

smell to !

smile (up)on something/somebody	to bestow approval on someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Fate has smiled upon me at last! I wish good luck would smile on me.
smile on something/somebody	to be favorable to someone or something	Fate smiled on me and I got the job. Lady luck smiled on our venture and we made a profit.

smile at
smile at (somebody) for ([doing] something)
smile at somebody	to make a smiling face at someone	I love the way you smile at me. I am glad you smile at me occasionally.

smirk at something/somebody	to smile in a smug or sneering way at someone or something	Why are you smirking at me like that? Jane looked at the report and smirked at it.

smite somebody with something	to strike someone with something (Literary or biblical)	The silver knight approached the black knight and smote him with his sword. Please go and smite the dragon with your sword.

smoke (somebody, something, or an animal) out of something	to drive someone or something out into public view, as if using smoke or something similar	What will it take to smoke these crooks out of government? We will smoke out the corrupt officials yet.
smoke (somebody, something, or an animal) out of something	to force someone, something, or an animal out of something or a place, using smoke	The police used tear gas to smoke the kidnappers out of the house. They smoked out the crooks.
smoke out something	to find something	The company is trying to smoke out a buyer for its weaker divisions.
smoke somebody out	to force someone to stop hiding	He didn't just walk into the police station and surrender, we had to smoke him out of hiding. To prevent such attacks, you have to smoke out the bad guys before they reach their targets.

smoke something up	to cause something or a place to become smoky	Get out of here with that cigarette! I don't want you smoking my house up! The burning beans sure smoked up the house.

smooth out something	to accept the unpleasant parts of a situation as well as the pleasant parts	You have to be prepared to take the rough with the smooth in marriage.
smooth out something	to make differences smaller	The two countries are working hard to smooth out their disagreements. A monthly average of sales smooths the highs and lows out and gives a more accurate idea of business activity.

smooth over something	to make problems seem less serious	He's on a three-day visit to smooth over a crisis. They failed to agree on the main issue, and he certainly wasn't going to ignore it or try to smooth it over.

smooth something away	to remove something, such as wrinkles or other unevenness, by pressing or smoothing	Jeff put the cloth on the table and smoothed the wrinkles away with his hand. Jeff smoothed away the wrinkles.

smooth something back	to flatten and position something by pressing or smoothing	He smoothed his hair back out of his eyes. Jeff smoothed back his hair.

smooth something down	to make something flat or smooth by pressing	she smoothed her skirt down, fluffed her hair, and went into the boardroom. Karen smoothed down the bedclothes.

smooth something onto something/somebody	to spread or flatten something onto someone or something	Ted smoothed the suntan lotion onto Alice, who lay on a towel in the sand. He smoothed on some lotion.

smooth something out	and smooth something over; to reduce the intensity of an argument or a misunderstanding; to try to make people feel better about something disagreeable that has happened	Mary and John had a terrible argument, and they are both trying to smooth it over. Let's get everyone together and try to smooth things out. We can't keep on arguing with one another. We can smooth over the whole affair.
smooth something out	to flatten or even something by smoothing or pressing	Wally smoothed the bedspread out. Wally finished making the bed by smoothing out the spread.
smooth something out	to polish and refine something	The editor smoothed John's style out. You need to smooth out your delivery when you are speaking.

smooth the way for somebody/something	to make conditions easier for something to happen	Parents can do a lot to smooth the way for their children when they start school. To smooth our way, many people offered to drive us to and from the hospital.
smooth the way for somebody/something	to make it easier for someone to do something or for something to happen	Parents can do a lot to smooth the way for their children when they start school. To smooth the bill's way through Congress, the President met with Republican leaders to hear their views.

smother something/somebody with something	to cover someone or something with something (An exaggeration)	she smothered him with kisses. Aunt Margaret smothered us with the ruffles on the front of her dress when she hugged us.
smother something/somebody with something	to suffocate someone or something with something	The villain tried to smother his victim with a pillow. Fred tried to smother the cat with a plastic bag.

smuggle something/somebody across something	to move someone or something across a border illegally and in secret	The terrorists smuggled one of their number across the border last night. Larry helped smuggle contraband across the border.

smuggle something/somebody past	(someone or something) to move something past a guard or monitor illegally and in secret	We failed in our attempt to smuggle Mary past the border. It is easy to smuggle wine past the border guards.

smuggle something/somebody through	(something) to move something through a guard post or other barrier illegally and in secret	The officers smuggled the child through the barrier so he could be with his mother. We smuggled some other goods through, too.

snack off (of) something	to eat food, bit by bit, in little snacks (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Please don't snack off the turkey so we can get another meal out of it. Who has been snacking off of last night's roast beef?

snake along	to move along in a curving line, looking like a snake; to move along in a line, moving as a snake moves	The train snaked along, gaining speed as it went downhill. The line of people waiting to buy tickets snaked along slowly.

snake in the grass	a sneaky and despised person	How could I ever have trusted that snake in the grass? John is such a snake in the grass.

snap at somebody	to speak sharply or angrily to someone (Based on snap at someone or something)	Don't snap at me. What did I do?' Why did you snap at me? I did nothing wrong.
snap at something	to seize an opportunity (See also snap at someone or something)	It is such a good deal, I knew you would snap at it. Just as I thought, Ted snapped at my final offer.
snap at something/somebody	to bite at someone or something (See also snap at someone; snap at something)	The dog snapped at my pants leg, but I escaped the attack unharmed. The fox snapped at the chicken and finally caught hold of it. The dog snapped at the judge and was disqualified.

snap back (on something/somebody)	[for something] to be jerked back onto someone or something	The branch snapped back on Tim and left a welt on his arm. The whip snapped back and stung Tex's hand.
snap something back	to cause something to jerk back	The force of the crash snapped his head back and injured his neck. The crash snapped back his head.

snap into something	[for something] to be put or fit into an opening with an audible snap	The larger edge of the card snaps into the slot at the base. This part snaps right into the other part.
snap something into something	to put or press something into something with an audible snap	Next, you snap this little part into this slot here. snap in these legs then tighten the screws.

snap it up	Hurry up! John: Come on, Fred	Snap it up! Fred: I'm hurrying! I'm hurrying! Sally: Snap it up! You're going to make us late. John: That's exactly what I had in mind.
snap something up	to believe something eagerly; to believe a lie readily	They are so gullible that you can say anything and they'll snap it up. They will snap up anything that sounds good.
snap something up	to grasp something quickly	Karen snapped her pencil up and strode out of the room. Harry walked through the kitchen and snapped up two cookies on the way.
snap something up	to purchase something quickly, because the price is low or because the item is so hard to find	We put the cheap shirts out for sale this morning and people snapped them up in only a few minutes. They snapped up the bargains quickly.
snap up something	to buy or obtain something as soon as it is available	His new thriller is so popular, fans have snapped up copies as fast as bookstores get them. As soon as the World Series tickets went on sale, fans snapped them up.

snap off (a piece of something)	To break off (a piece of something).
snap off !
snap something off	to break off something brittle	Liz snapped a bit of the rock off and put it in her bag. Carl snapped off a piece of the candy and gave it to Timmy.

snap out of something	something that you say to someone when you want them to hurry	We're leaving in five minutes so you'd better snap to it. Snap it up, can't you? Surely you've had enough time to write that letter!
snap out of something	to become suddenly freed from a condition (The condition can be a depression, an illness, unconsciousness, etc.)	I was very depressed for a week, but this morning I snapped out of it. It isn't often that a cold gets me down. Usually lean snap out of it quickly.
snap out of something	to stop experiencing something, esp	something unpleasant Davis snapped out of a two-year slump to win at the golf tournament. Usage notes: usually used in the form snap out of it and sometimes given as advice: She's filled with grief, and just can't seem to snap out of it. Are you feeling guilty about not spending time with the kids? Well, snap out of it!
snap something out of something	to remove something from something, causing an audible snap	Jeff snapped the plastic plug out of the socket. He snapped out the plug.

snap something on	to attach something to something else, causing an audible snap	Dawn took two pills from the bottle and snapped the lid on. she snapped on the lid.

snap to (attention)	to move quickly to military attention	The troops snapped to attention when they saw the general appear. snap to when I tell you!

snarl at (somebody, something, or an animal)	to growl at someone, something, or an animal angrily and threateningly	The dog snarled at everyone who passed by. Our dog used to sit in front of the washing machine and snarl at it.

snarl something out	to utter something by snarling or growling	Lefty snarled a naughty word out at the police. Walt the pickpocket snarled out a curse as the cop grabbed his coat collar.

snarl something/somebody up	to tangle someone or something; to mess something up	The wind snarled my hair up terribly. The wind snarled up my hair.

snatch at something/somebody	to grasp at someone or something	The mugger snatched at Jane just as she sprayed Mace on him. He snatched at the Mace, but it was too late.

snatch somebody out of the jaws of death	to save someone from almost certain or imminent death	The soldier snatched the tiny child from the jaws of death.
snatch something out of something	to grab something out of something	The police officer snatched the gun out of Don's hand. Mary snatched the piece of chicken out of the fire as soon as it fell in.

snatch something up	to collect or acquire as many of something as possible	The shoppers snatched the sale merchandise up very quickly. The shoppers snatched up the sale merchandise very quickly.
snatch something up	to grasp something and lift it up	Tom snatched the last cookie up and popped it into his mouth. He snatched up the last piece of cake.

snatch something/somebody (away) from something/somebody	to grab and take someone or something from someone or something	The mother snatched her child away from the doctor and fled. she snatched the candy from the child.
snatch victory from the jaws of defeat	to win at the last moment	At the last moment, the team snatched victory from the jaws of defeat with a last-second full-court basket.

sneak around (some place)	to move about a place in a sneaky or stealthy fashion	Please don't sneak around the house. It makes me nervous. Please stop sneaking around!
sneak around something/somebody	to circumvent the control or censorship of someone or some group	I think we can sneak around the board of directors and authorize this project ourselves. Yes, let's sneak around the board.
sneak around something/somebody	to creep around or past someone or something	The cat sneaked around Molly and ran out the door. We had to sneak around the corner so we wouldn't be seen.

sneak away (from some place)	to go away from a place quietly and in secret	Jeff tried to sneak away from the party, but Judy saw him. They sneaked away together.

sneak in(to some place)	to enter a place quietly and in secret, perhaps without a ticket or permission	The kids tried to sneak into the rock concert, but they were stopped by the guards. Never try to sneak in. Sometimes they arrest you for trespassing.

sneak out (of some place)	to go out of a place quietly and in secret	I sneaked out of the meeting, hoping no one would notice. Jamie saw me and sneaked out with me.

sneak up on something/somebody	to approach someone or something quietly and in secret	Please don't sneak up on me like that. I sneaked up on the cake, hoping no one would see me. someone did.
sneak up to something/somebody	to move close to someone or something quietly and in secret	I sneaked up to Don and scared him to death. Don sneaked up to the punch bowl and helped himself before the party began.

sneer at something/somebody	to make a haughty or deprecating face at someone or something; to show one's contempt for someone or something	I asked her politely to give me some more room, and she just sneered at me. Jamie sneered at the report that Ken had submitted.

sneeze at somebody	to sneeze in someone's direction	Please don't sneeze at me! Cover your nose and mouth! You should never sneeze at anyone. It is very bad manners.
sneeze at something	to indicate one's disapproval of something; to belittle someone or something	I wouldn't sneeze at that amount of money if I were you. It's better than nothing. I though it was a good offer, but the customer just sneezed at it.

sneeze into something	to aim a sneeze into something	You should always sneeze into a handkerchief. Please sneeze into a tissue or something.

sniff out somebody/something	if something or someone is not to be sneezed at, they are important or dangerous enough to deserve serious attention Goodman is not a man to be sniffed at (American & Australian informal)
sniff out somebody/something	if something, especially an amount of money, is not to be sneezed at, it is large enough to be worth having	And there's the increase in salary to be considered. ВЈ3000 extra a year is not to be sneezed at.
sniff out somebody/something	to discover someone or something, usually only after a special effort	Part of their job is to sniff out talented new writers. The FBI knew they had a double agent in their midst, but it took years to sniff him out. Related vocabulary: nose around.
sniff out somebody/something	to show one's disapproval of someone or something by sniffing (Sometimes this is figurative, the "sniffing" being expressed by tone of voice or gesture)	I made one suggestion, but Claire just sniffed at me. Gale just sniffed at the idea and would say nothing.
sniff out somebody/something	to try to get the smell of someone or something by smelling	The dog sniffed at the visitor. The cat sniffed at almost every inch of the rug that the dog had walked on.
sniff something/somebody out	to locate someone or something by sniffing or as if by sniffing	The dog sniffed the intruder out and the police captured him. The dog sniffed out the mole in the lawn.

snip something off (of) something	to cut something off something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	she snipped a dead blossom off the rosebush. Jane snipped off a bud.

snipe at something/somebody	to fire a weapon at someone or something from a concealed position	Someone with a rifle sniped at the troops as they went through the jungle. A rifleman was busy sniping at the platoon.
snipe at something/somebody	to make petty complaints attacking someone or something	Stop sniping at me and everything I do. Ken is always sniping at my reports.

snitch on somebody	to tattle on someone	You wouldn't snitch on me, would you? Timmy snitched on his older brother.

snoop around (something)	to look around in a place, trying to find out something secret or about someone else's affairs	Why are you snooping around my house? I am not snooping around.

snoop into something	to pry into something or someone else's affairs	I wish you would stop snooping into my business! Whose affairs are they snooping into now?

snort at something/somebody	to show one's displeasure with someone or something by snorting	The customer snorted at the waiter for his surliness. The customer snorted at the prices and walked out.

snow something/somebody in	[for heavy snowfall] to block someone or something in a place	The sudden storm snowed us in. The storm snowed in most of the people in town.

snow something/somebody under with something	to burden someone or something with something (Usually too much work)	The busy season snowed us all under with too much work. The heavy workload snowed under the office staff.

snowed in	trapped (somewhere) because of too much snow	The snow was so deep that we were snowed in for three days. Being snowed in is no problem if you have enough food.

snowed under	having too much work to do	She wants me to take some time off but I'm snowed under with work at the moment.
snowed under	to have so much work that you have problems dealing with it all (often + with)	She wants me to take some time off but I'm snowed under with work at the moment.

snuff out something	if someone or something is up to snuff, they are of an acceptable standard or quality (often negative)	Their wine-list is very good but I'm afraid the food isn't really up to snuff. The police force is replacing its older patrol cars to make sure they all come up to snuff. We have spent a tremendous amount of money bringing the department up to snuff.
snuff out something	to put an end to something	The bomber triggered his explosion and snuffed out the lives of 167 innocent people in that building. Before he could reach the top in his career, a scandal almost snuffed it out.
snuff somebody out	to kill someone	Max really wanted to snuff the eyewiteness out, once and for all. Lefty wanted to snuff out his partner.
snuff something out	to extinguish something, such as a flame	she snuffed all the candles out and went to bed. Karen snuffed out the flames one by one.

snuggle (up) against something/somebody	to press or cuddle against someone or something, as if to keep warm	Tiffany snuggled up against Tad and asked him to give her some chewing gum. He snuggled against the warm wall on the other side of the fireplace.

snuggle down (with something)	to nestle [into something] with something, such as a blanket, doll, book, etc.	The baby snuggled down with her blanket and was asleep in no time. Sally grabbed onto her favorite doll and snuggled down for the night.

snuggle up (to something/somebody)	to cuddle up close to someone or something	Kelly snuggled up to Jeff. she snuggled up and said she wanted him to go pick up a pizza.

soak in(to something)	[for moisture] to penetrate something	The rain soaked into the parched ground as fast as it fell. I'm glad it soaked in. I was afraid it would run off.
soak something in something	to leave something immersed in a liquid, intending for it to be absorbed	soak your feet in Epsom salts to make them feel better. I had to soak my elbow in ice water to take down the swelling.

soak somebody to !
soak something off (of) something	to remove something, such as a label or surface soil, from something by soaking in a liquid (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	she soaked the labels off the bottles and jars. Please soak off the label.

soak something out of something	to remove something, such as a stain, from something by soaking in a liquid	Dan soaked the stain out of his shirt and then washed it. Dan soaked out the stain.

soak something up	[for cloth, paper, or other absorbent material] to absorb moisture or a liquid	Please get some paper towels to soak the spill up. The sponge soaked up the orange juice.
soak something up	to gather up moisture or a liquid, using an absorbent cloth, paper, etc.	Alice soaked the spill up with a sponge. she soaked up the spilled milk.
soak something up	to learn or absorb some information; to learn much information	I can't soak information up as fast as I used to be able to. The tourists will soak up anything you tell them.
soak up something	to be extremely wet	The rain was so heavy we were soaked to the skin after only ten minutes.
soak up something	to enjoy something	I just want to lie on the beach and soak up the sun. What does he think of all the praise he's getting? He's soaking it up.
soak up something	to learn and remember something easily and quickly	Jill soaks up everything that's said in class. Music came naturally to him, and when he heard something, he soaked it up and could play it.
soak up something	to use all of something	The price of heating oil will not rise until the cold weather soaks up the huge amount waiting to be sold. There was a budget surplus, but the needs of the military will surely soak it up.
soak up something	wet clear through one's clothing to the skin	I was caught in the rain and got soaked to the skin. oh, come in and dry off! You must be soaked to the skin.

soak something/somebody with something	to get someone or something thoroughly wet with some liquid	The rain soaked us all with icy cold drops of water. The storm soaked the land with much-needed moisture.

soak through something	[for liquid] to work its way through something, such as cloth or paper	Please wipe up that mess before it soaks through the tablecloth. It's too late. The grape juice has soaked through the carpet into the mat.

soaked to the skin	to be extremely wet	I forgot my umbrella and got soaked to the skin when I had to go out this afternoon.

soap something/somebody down	to cover someone or something thoroughly with soap or suds	Mother soaped Timmy down and rinsed him off in warm water. she soaped down the floor.

sob oneself to sleep	to cry until one falls asleep	He sobbed himself to sleep for days after his grandpa died. The child sobbed himself to sleep night after night.
sob something to somebody	to cry and tell one's troubles to someone	He is always sobbing his sad tale to anyone who will listen. Timmy sobbed his story to the teacher.

sob something out	to speak something out while sobbing	Wally sobbed his story out while the police made notes. He sobbed out his sad tale.

sober somebody up	to cause someone to face reality	The harsh reality of what had happened sobered him up immediately. The arrival of the police sobered up all the revelers.
sober somebody up	to take actions that will cause a drunken person to become sober	some coffee ought to sober him up. He tried to sober himself up because he had to drive home. They tried to sober up the guys who had been out all night.
sober up	to become sober	Some coffee definitely won't sober them up.
sober up	to recover from alcohol or drug intoxication	Barlowe had one hour to sober up and get to the station. It took him a while to sober up.

sock to somebody !

sock something away	to place something, such as money, into reserve; to store something in a secure place	I try to sock a little money away each month for my vacation. I will sock away some money.

sock something/somebody in	[for fog] to cause someone or something to remain in place	The heavy fog socked us in for six hours. The fog socked in the airport for an hour.

soften somebody up	to prepare to persuade someone of something	I will talk to Fred and soften him up for your request. I will soften up your father before you ask him about it.
soften somebody/something up	to weaken someone or something	Constant bombing was designed to soften the enemy up and weaken him. The ads were just a way to soften up public opinion to accept a big price increase.
soften something up	to take actions that will make something softer	soften the butter up before you add it to the batter. Please soften up the ice cream before you try to serve it.

soldier on	someone who fights for any country or group that will pay him	A soldier of fortune in the service of both Christian and Muslim kings, he was constantly fighting from 1065.
soldier on	to continue to do something in a determined way, esp	when you know you may not succeed She was working with these gorgeous guys, and she managed to soldier on despite being a bit intimidated by them.

solicit for something/somebody	to seek money or other contributions for someone or something, such as a charitable cause	I am soliciting for crippled children. Would you care to contribute? Are you soliciting for a local cause?
solicit somebody for something	to attempt to persuade someone to give something, such as money, for a specific purpose	The school band solicited the owners of the business for a contribution. Fred solicited everyone in his department for at least a dollar.

son of !

sorry for somebody

sort of	to some degree kind of (Usage notes: sometimes used to show that you are not certain about something)	It seemed to be sort of a cross between an oyster and a mushroom. I'm sort of at an age where I just want things to be a little more orderly.
sort of	Yes, but only to a small degree	Bob: Do you like what you're doing in school? Alice: Kind of. Henry: What do you think about all these new laws? Do they worry you? John: Sort of.
sort of something	almost something; somewhat; somehow	Isn't it sort of cold out? That was kind of a stupid thing to do, wasn't it?

sort out	to resolve	We sorted our our differences and became friends again.
sort something out	organize, resolve a problem	We need to sort the bills out before the first of the month.
sort something out	to deal successfully with a problem or a situation	We know that our boys have gotten into trouble with the law, but our family is working on sorting it out. Detectives are still sorting out who was involved in the crime. Usage notes: often in the form sort things out: We haven't had many chances to talk to each other and sort things out.
sort something out	to sort something; to arrange according to class or category	Let's sort these cards out. Would you please sort out your socks?
sort something out	to study a problem and figure it out	I can't sort this out without some more time. Let's sort out this mess and settle it once and for all.

sound asleep	completely asleep; in a deep sleep	I was sound asleep when the fire broke out.
sound asleep	in a deep sleep	He knew she would be sound asleep after an exhausting day of work.

sound off	to express one's views and opinions	The speaker sounded off on the terrible treatment of animals.
sound off	to express your opinion forcefully	On the Internet, people can sound off, in real time, about whatever they want.
sound off	to speak something loudly; to call out one's name or one's place in a numerical sequence	All right, sound off, you guys! Each one sounded off.

sound somebody out	to carefully discover what someone thinks or knows	I thought it might be good to sound him out about having you come to work for us. His policy was to sound out top business leaders before making any new economic proposals. Usage notes: used to describe a way of asking about someone's opinions without upsetting or angering them.
sound somebody out	to try to find out what someone thinks (about something)	I don't know what Jane thinks about your suggestion, but I'll sound her out. please sound out everyone in your department.
sound something out	to pronounce the letters or syllables of a word as a means of figuring out what the word is (Usually said to a child)	This word is easy, Bobby. Try to sound it out.

soup something up	to increase the power of something	He souped his car up so it will do nearly 120 miles per hour. If only I could soup up this computer to run just a little faster.
soup up something	to make something more powerful (Usage notes: usually used to describe an improvement to a car or other machine)	They had to soup up the air-conditioning to keep her computers from overheating in the summer.

sow of something !

space out	to become giddy or disoriented	Judy spaced out during the meeting and I didn't understand a word she said. I have a tendency to space out at the end of a hard day.
space somebody out	to cause someone to become giddy	The circus clowns just spaced me out. The hilarious spectacle spaced out the entire audience.

spar with somebody	to argue or quibble with someone	I think you really enjoy sparring with people just to irritate them. stop sparring with me! I am not here to argue.
spar with somebody	to box with someone for practice	The champ needs someone to spar with every day. Ted was sparring with his brother when the phone rang and saved him from further exertion.

spare somebody something	to exempt someone from having to listen to or experience something	I'll spare you the details and get to the point. Please, spare me the story and tell me what you want.

sparkle with something	to glitter or twinkle because of something	The crystal goblets sparkled with the light from the flickering candles. Her eyes sparkled with the reflection of the candles.

spatter on something/somebody	[for a liquid or something moist] to splash onto someone or something	When Kelly painted the hallway, a lot of paint spattered on the floor. The hot fat spattered on me.
spatter something on(to) something/somebody	to scatter or splash bits or drops of a liquid or something moist onto someone or something	Who spattered barbecue sauce onto the wall? The paint can fell and spattered paint on everyone.

spatter something around	to scatter bits or drops of a liquid or something moist here and there	Ted spattered paint around everywhere when he redecorated his kitchen. Don't spatter around the paint.

spatter something/somebody up	to get drops of a liquid or bits of something moist onto someone or something	The painter spattered his partner up when he dropped the paint bucket accidentally. The falling paint bucket spattered up the wall.

spatter something/somebody with something	to splash someone or something with drops of a liquid or bits of something moist	Frank spattered us with grapefruit juice as he was eating a half of grapefruit. He even spattered the wall with juice.

speak out (about something)	To state one's views and opinions about something	The former police chief spoke out about the recent corruption scandal.

speak to
speak to/with (somebody) about (topic)
speak to/with somebody about something/somebody

speak up	to speak more loudly	Please speak up. I can't hear you. Please speak up. I nearly can't hear you.
speak up for	You can speak up for those who cannot speak for themselves.

speak with !

spear something out (of something)	to bring something forth from something by sticking it with something sharp and pulling	Richard spears pickles right out of the jar with a fork. He speared out a pickle.

specialize in	He will specialize in making wine.

speculate about something/somebody	to make guesses about someone or something; to hypothesize about someone or something	I refuse to speculate about Sally. I don't presume to guess what she will do. We don't speculate about the future.

speculate in something	to make risky business deals in the buying and selling of something	Jeff made a fortune speculating in cotton. I do not wish to speculate in anything. It is too risky.

speculate on something	to make a hypothesis about something	I really don't want to speculate on what might happen next. Would you care to speculate on what might happen if you quit your job?

speed away (from something/somebody)	to move or drive away very fast from someone or something	The taxi sped away from the passenger who had just alighted. The car sped away from the accident. The motorcycle sped away.

speed something/somebody up	to cause someone or something to move faster	We tried to speed him up, but he is just a very slow person. We sped up the process, but it still took too long.

spell (something) out (for somebody)	To explain something really carefully	It's pretty obvious. I don't have to spell it out for you.
spell out something	to be the cause of possible problems in the future (often + for)	The continuing dry weather could spell trouble for farmers.
spell out something	to explain something in detail	Students have been given a fact sheet that spells out how AIDS is transferred. The company has a very strict dress code, and they spell it out for you when you start working there.
spell out something	to signify future trouble; to mean trouble	This letter that came today spells trouble. The sky looks angry and dark. That spells trouble.
spell something out	to give all the details of something	I want you to understand this completely, so I'm going to spell it out very carefully. The instruction book for my computer spells out everything very carefully.
spell something out	to spell something (with letters)	I can't understand your name. Can you spell it out? Please spell out all the strange words so I can write them down correctly.

spell somebody (at something)	to take a turn at doing something while the person who was doing it can take a rest	I will spell you at selling tickets while you go and grab a bite to eat.

spell somebody down	to win over someone in a spelling match	Frank spelled everyone else down and won the spelling bee. He spelled down almost everyone.

spell something for somebody	to spell a word or name for someone's benefit	I don't recognize that word. Would you please spell it for me? It is a difficult name. I will have to spell it for you.

spend money on something/somebody	HeВ spendsВ a lot of moneyВ onВ his girlfriend.
spend something on something/somebody	to pay out an amount of money for the benefit of someone or something	How much did you spend on him for his birthday? I spent a lot on Mary's gift.

spend something for something	to pay out an amount of money for something	I spent nearly forty dollars for that vase! How much did you spend for this house - ;if I may ask?

spend time in something	to stay in something or some place for a period of time	I spent time in Barbados when I was younger. I am afraid that you will have to spend some time in the hospital until the infection is cleared up.

spew something out	to have something gush forth	The faucet spewed a little yellowish water out and stopped altogether. The faucet spewed out some yellowish water.

spew something up	to gush something upward	The geyser spewed hot water and steam up every hour on the hour. The fountain spewed up a thin stream of cool, clear water.

spice something up	to make some food or drink more spicy	Judy spiced the cider up by adding cinnamon and nutmeg. she spiced up the chili too much.
spice something up	to make something more interesting, lively, or sexy	I'm afraid that the nude scenes spiced the musical up too much. some people walked out. Judy liked to spice her lectures up by telling jokes. she spiced up each lecture with a joke. They spiced up the play too much.

spiff something up	to polish and groom something very well; to make something clean and tidy	See if you can spiff this place up a little. I will spiff up the room a little.

spill (out) into something	to be so great in number or volume as to expand into another area	The crowd spilled out into the street. The well-wishers spilled over into the neighbor's yard.

spill out (of something)	to scatter, flow, or drop out of something	All the rice spilled out of the box onto the floor. The rice spilled out on the floor.

spill over	to reach or influence a larger area	The fighting may spill over the border and start a wider war. Layoffs in one industry often spill over into other industries.
spill over	[for a container] to overflow	I hope your bucket of water doesn't spill over. The milk glass spilled over because it was filled too full.
spill over	[for the contents of a container] to overflow	The bucket is too full. I don't know why the water doesn't spill over. The milk spilled over because you overfilled the glass.
spill over on(to) something/somebody	[for something] to scatter, flow, or drop (out of something) onto someone or something	The bowl of milk spilled over onto the children when they jarred the table. The bowl spilled over on the floor.

spin around	to rotate, possibly a number of times	The propellers spun around and soon the old plane began to taxi down the runway. The merry-go-round spun around at a moderate speed.
spin around	to turn around to face a different direction	Jill spun around to face her accuser. Todd spun around in his chair so he could see who was talking to him.

spin in somebody's grave	to be shocked and upset by what someone has done (Usage notes: also used in the forms turn over in someone's grave and roll over in someone's grave; used to show that if someone already dead were present, they would be upset)	Hoch said the place was like a cow pasture, which no doubt had his grandmother spinning in her grave.

spin off	[for something] to part and fly away from something that is spinning; [for something] to detach or break loose from something	The blade of the lawn mower spun off, but fortunately no one was injured. The rusted-on nut spun off easily after I got it loosened.
spin off something	to form a separate company from parts of an existing company	The company will consider spinning off its music recording and retail businesses early next year.
spin off something	to produce something additional	Star Trek seems capable of spinning movies and TV series off endlessly.
spin something off	[for a business] to divest itself of one of its subparts	The large company spun one of its smaller divisions off. It spun off a subsidiary and used the cash to pay down its debt.
spin something off	[for an enterprise] to produce useful or profitable side effects or products	We will be able to spin off a number of additional products. The development of this product will allow us to spin off dozens of smaller, innovative products for years to come.
spin something off	[for something rotating] to release a part that flies away	The propeller spun one of its blades off and then fell apart all together. It spun off one of its blades.

spin out	[for a vehicle] to go out of control, spinning	You nearly spun out on that last turn! Cars were spinning out all over the highway when the ice storm hit.
spin out something	to give the details of a story or idea	LaRouche liked to spin out crazy theories all the time. We were dazzled by his ability to take a simple idea and spin it out into something amazing.
spin something out	to prolong something	Was there really any need to spin the whole process out so long? Why did they spin out the graduation ceremony for such a long time?
spin something out of something	to remove liquid from something by spinning	The washer spun the water out of the load of clothing. The washer spun out all the water in the clothes.

spiral down	to descend in a spiral path	The ancient trail spiraled down the mountain peak. A path spiraled down and at the bottom was a small refreshment stand.

spiral up	to ascend in a spiral path	The smoke spiraled up to the sky. The trail spiraled up the slope to the top.

spirit something/somebody away (somewhere)	to sneak someone or something away to another place	The police spirited the prisoner away before the crowd assembled in front of the jail. They spirited away the celebrity.

spirit something/somebody off (to some place)	to hurry someone or something away, presumably unnoticed, to another place	Aunt Jane spirited the children off to bed at half-past eight. She spirited off the leftover roast beef.

spit (up)on something/somebody	to eject spit onto someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The angry crowd spit on the convict. Don't spit on the sidewalk.
spit (up)on something/somebody	to spew spittle onto someone or something while talking (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	I always have a fear of accidentally spitting on someone in the first row while I am talking. I regret spitting on you, but it was an accident.
spit something on(to) something	to expel something from the mouth onto something	You shouldn't spit your gum onto the sidewalk! Don't spit your gum on the pavement.

spit at something/somebody	to expectorate on someone or something or in the direction of someone or something	The angry crowd cursed and spit at the prisoner as he was being taken back to jail. Max actually spit at the police station door as he was dragged in.

spit something in (to) something	to expel something from the mouth into something	He spit his gum into the toilet. He opened the toilet and spit in his gum.

spit something out	to cast something from the mouth	The food was so terrible that I spit it out. I spit out the sweet potatoes.
spit something out	to manage to say something	Come on! Say it! spit it out! spit it out! Get it said!
spit something out	to say something scornfully	He spit out his words in utter derision. she spit out the most unpleasant string of curse words I have ever heard from anyone.

spit something up	to vomit something	she almost spit her dinner up. Sally was afraid she was going to spit up her dinner.

splash about	to move about in a volume of a liquid, splashing	The children splashed about in the pool. They splashed around for an hour.
splash about	[for a liquid] to move about, splashing	The water splashed about in the bucket. It splashed around as I carried the bucket.

splash down	[for a space capsule] to land in the water	The capsule splashed down very close to the pickup ship.

splash on something/somebody	to scatter [a liquid] on someone or something	Try to keep from splashing on anybody. Don't splash on the wall!
splash something on(to) something/somebody	to make a liquid scatter onto someone or something	Accidentally, the lab assistant splashed acid onto his arm. He splashed something on the counter.

splash something (all) over something/somebody	to cause a liquid to overflow or engulf someone or something	Tony splashed water all over Nick. Who splashed milk all over the table?

splash something about	to scatter or slosh a liquid about	Please don't splash that about. It will stain anything you spill it on. Don't splash that stuff about!

splash something/somebody up	to scatter a liquid onto someone or something	Don't get that stuff all over. Don't splash the place up! She splashed up the kitchen when she washed the dishes.

splash something/somebody with something	to scatter or slosh someone or something with a liquid	The whales at Sea World splashed everyone in the audience with water. I splashed the side of the stove with pancake batter when I dropped the bowl.

splatter something/somebody up	to cover someone or something with drops of a liquid	The painter splattered his coworker up with both red and blue. Don't splatter up the wall!

splay out	to spread out; to extend out at an angle	His feet splayed out so much that it was hard to see how he could stand up. The legs of the table splayed out and gave it sturdy support.

splice something (in)to something	to connect something to something; to cut and join something into something to connect the two	The workers spliced the small wires into the main cable. Let's splice this rope into the larger one at the halfway point.

splice something together	to connect things together, usually by twisting or tying a joint between the two	I spent over an hour splicing the two ends of the ropes together, and it didn't hold for even a minute. He carefully spliced together the two ropes.

splinter off (of) (something)	[for a bit of something] to tear off or separate from something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	A piece of wood splintered off of the oar and dropped into the water. A tiny bit splintered off and stuck in my hand.

split in something	to divide into a certain number of groups (The something can be half, thirds, two, quarters, etc.)	Lightning struck the big tree and the trunk split in half. The vase dropped and split in quarters.

split off (from something)	to separate away from something; to sever connection with and separate from something	A large iceberg split off from the glacier and made an enormous splash. A giant chunk of ice split off and floated away.

split one's sides (with laughter)	to laugh so hard that one's sides almost split (Always an exaggeration)	The members of the audience almost split their sides with laughter. When I heard what happened to Patricia, I almost split my sides.
split something/somebody with something/somebody	to divide someone or something with someone or a group of people	I will split the campers with you. You lead your half on the hike, and I will lead my half. Will you split your candy bar with me?

split people up	to separate two or more people (from one another)	If you two don't stop chattering, I'll have to split you up. I will have to split up that twosome in the corner.
split something/somebody up (into something)	to divide people or things up into something, such as groups	I had to split the group up into two sections - ;there were so many who showed up. I split up the class into two discussion sections.
split up	to end a (romantic) relationship	Peter and his girlfriend split up last week.
split up	to go in separate directions	We had to split the class up into two classes.
split up (with somebody)	[for someone] to separate from someone; to break up a marriage or love affair	Jeff split up with Judy. I had heard that they had split up with each other.

split something between (somebody and somebody else)	to divide something between two people or things	The cook split the last of the pie between Jane and Carla. We have to split the copies of the reports between the two committees.

split something into something	to divide or sever something into something	Jeff split the log into four parts. Please split this log in half so it will burn better.

split something off (of) something	to sever connection with something; to separate from something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Dave split a piece of wood off the log to use for kindling. He split off a stick of wood.

splurge on something/somebody	to spend a lot of money on someone or something	I really splurged on my wife for her birthday. Mary really splurged on that dinner!

sponge something away	to absorb, wipe up, and wipe away something, as with a sponge	Try sponging the stain away with some soda water. I will sponge away the mess.

sponge something from somebody	to beg or borrow money or food from someone	Gary tried to sponge a few bucks from me. I can't continue sponging food from my relatives.
sponge something from something	to remove moisture from something, as with a sponge	Liz sponged the sauce from her blouse. We gently sponged the splattered paint from the carpet.

sponge something off of something/somebody	to beg or borrow money or food from someone or a group	Please stop sponging food and money off your relatives! Stop sponging off food and money all the time!

sponge something up	to absorb or take up moisture, as with a sponge	I had to sponge the spilled milk up from the floor, the chair, the table, and the baby. What a mess! Liz sponged up the water.

sponge something/somebody down	to remove the [excess] moisture from someone or something; to wipe someone or something with a sponge	The fight manager sponged his boxer down. I will sponge down the countertop.

spook something/somebody	to startle or disorient someone or something	A snake spooked my horse, and I nearly fell off. Your warning spooked me, and I was upset for the rest of the day.

spoon something out	to serve something out, as with a spoon; to give something out, as with a spoon	The cook spooned the beans out, giving plenty to each camper. The cook spooned out the beans.

spoon something up	to serve something that requires finding and bringing up out of a pot with a spoon	The cook spooned the hard-cooked eggs up one by one. The cook spooned up chunks of meat from the stew.

sport of !

sport with something/somebody	to tease or play with someone or something	What a tease you are! You are just sporting with me! The dog was sporting with a turtle down by the stream.

spot somebody as something	to recognize someone to be something; to realize that someone is something	I spotted you as a troublemaker from the very beginning. The guard spotted Max as a potential thief the moment he saw him.

spout from something	[for a liquid] to gush from something	A plume of water vapor spouted from the blowhole of the whale. Water spouted from the top of the fountain and flowed down the sides.

spout something out	to blurt something out; to speak out suddenly, revealing some important piece of information	She spouted the name of the secret agent out under the effects of the drug. She spouted out everything we wanted to know.
spout something out	to exude a liquid	The hose spouted the cooling water out all over the children. It spouted out cooling water.

sprawl about	to slouch or lounge somewhere; to spread oneself out casually while lounging (Usually refers to habitual action, perhaps in a number of places)	He sprawled about, loafing the afternoon away. When I came into the room, four teenage boys were sprawled around the furniture, watching television.

sprawl out	to spread oneself out casually while lounging (Usually done one time, not habitually; Compare this with sprawl about)	He sprawled out and took up most of the space. I need more room so I can sprawl out.

spray something onto something/somebody	to direct a mist or stream of a liquid onto someone or something	Danny sprayed cold water onto the boys and cooled them off. Dan sprayed on some cold water. I sprayed the paint on and it dried almost immediately.

spray something/somebody with something	to coat someone or something with a mist or stream of liquid	The elephant sprayed us with water. I sprayed the fence with white paint. He sprayed himself with some of the cologne.

spread out	to separate and distribute over a wide area	He told them to spread out and continue their search. The sheriff told the members of the posse to spread out and continue their search. The wine spread out and stained a large area of the carpet.
spread something out	to open, unfold, or lay something over a wider area	Spread the wet papers out so they will dry. She spread out the papers to dry them.

spread over something/somebody	[for something] to cover someone or something gradually	The shade slowly spread over the picnickers. Dusk spread its final shadows over the land.
spread something over something/somebody	to cause something to cover or be distributed over someone or something	The cloud spread its shadow over everyone at the picnic. We spread fertilizer over the prepared ground. He spread the work over a few weeks.

spread something around	to distribute news or gossip	Please don't spread this around, but Don ran away from home! Don't spread around that story!
spread something/somebody around	to distribute people or things over an area	Spread the good singers around so they can help the others in the choir. Liz spread around the seeds so they would dry.

spread something on !

spread something onto something	to distribute a coating of something onto something	Spread the butter onto the bread evenly. Spread on the butter evenly. Donna spread the paint on with a roller.

spread something under something/somebody	to extend or unfold something, such as a tarpaulin, beneath someone or something	Please spread some newspapers under Jimmy while he is working this clay. Would you spread some newspapers under your work, please?

spread something with something	to cover something with a coat of something	Using the roller, Judy spread the wall with a thick coat of pink paint. Spread the lasagna with a layer of cheese mixture and cover that with another layer of lasagna.

spring (forth) from something/somebody	to come forth from someone or something; to gush out of someone or something, as with a spring of water; to jump from or out of someone or something	The best ideas spring forth from the mind of Mary! What new example of pure genius can we expect to spring from Mary today?

spring (up)on (somebody, something, or an animal)	to jump on someone, something, or an animal; to pounce on someone, something, or an animal (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The lion sprang upon him and knocked him down. The cat sprang on the mouse and captured it.
spring something on somebody	to pull a trick on someone	Let me tell you about the trick I sprang on Sally. What are you going to spring on her this time?
spring something on somebody	to surprise someone with something	I hate to spring this on you at the last moment, but I will need some money to travel on. Please don't spring any other demands on me.

spring at something/somebody	to jump at someone or something	The cat sprang at me but could not sink in its claws. The spider sprang at the moth and captured it.

spring back (to some place)	to jump, bounce, or recoil back to a place	The cat sprang back to its original place on the top of the table. The lid sprang back to a closed position.

spring for something	to treat someone by buying something	I'm bouncing for pizza. Any takers? Ralph sprang for drinks, and we all had a great time.

spring into action	to suddenly begin moving or doing something	As soon as the boss came in the door, everyone sprang into action. Every morning, I jump out of bed and spring into action.

spring out at somebody	to jump out at someone	A grasshopper sprang out at me when I peered into the hollow log. I was afraid that something would spring out at me, so I opened the cellar door carefully.
spring out of something	to jump out of something	The cat sprang out of the closet when I opened the door. The boys sprang out of the cold water as fast as they could.

spring to !

sprinkle something on(to) something/somebody	to scatter or dribble something onto someone or something	The minister sprinkled the water onto the baby. The cook sprinkled on a dusting of powdered sugar.

sprinkle something/somebody with something	to lightly cover someone or something with something by scattering or sprinkling	The storm sprinkled us with a few droplets of water and then blew over. Larry sprinkled his grapefruit with powdered sugar.

sprout up	to grow upward quickly, as do newly sprouted seedlings	The seeds sprouted up in the warm rains. Many of the newly planted seeds failed to sprout up on time.

spruce up somebody/something	to improve the appearance of someone or something	She needed to spruce up her image so she bought tons of new clothes and got a great new hairstyle. The city has to spruce itself up for the Olympics next year.
spruce up somebody/something	to refurbish or renew someone or something	Do you think we should spruce this room up a little? Yes, let's spruce up this room with new furniture and drapes.
spruce up somebody/something	to tidy up and groom someone or something	Laura's mother took a few minutes to spruce her daughter up for the party. She spruced up her room each day.

spur somebody/something on	to encourage someone or something	I yelled at the dog to drop my hat, but that seemed to spur him on to chew it up. Having more women in government may spur on other women with an interest in entering politics.

spurt out (of something/somebody)	to squirt out of someone or something; to erupt in a stream out of someone or something	Hot lava spurted out of the volcano. Hot lava spurted out from the volcano. The blood spurted out from Walter where he had been slashed. Blood spurted from the wound. The fountain had a carved fish with water spurting from its mouth.
spurt something out	to eject something in a stream	The octopus spurted its ink out as the scuba diver approached it. It spurted out all its ink.

sputter out	[for a flame] to go out in little puffs	The candle flame flickered and sputtered out. The fire sputtered out after midnight and we all got very cold before down.
sputter something out	to utter something while stuttering or faltering (As when one is physically or mentally disoriented)	She was so excited she could hardly sputter her name out. He could only sputter out a few words.

spy (up)on something/somebody	to watch someone or something to learn secret or concealed information (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Are you spying upon me? I wasn't spying on you! I was just trying to see who you were.

squabble about something/somebody	to quarrel and disagree about someone or something	Please stop squabbling about Jeff, or I'll put him on my team so neither of you can have him. There is no need to squabble about the last piece of pie. There's more in the kitchen.

squabble over something/somebody	to fight over someone or something	Please don't squabble over me. I don't want to be chosen by any of you! Stop squabbling over money and go out and get a job.

squabble with somebody	to argue with someone	Please don't squabble with your sister! I wish that everyone would stop squabbling with me!
squabble with something	to argue about something	I won't squabble with what you said, but you are wrong. One political party will squabble with any issue the other party brings up.

squander something away	to waste something; to use up something valuable wastefully	Where is all the money I gave you last month? Did you squander it all away? Frank squandered away all his assets.

squander something on something/somebody	to waste all of something on someone or something	I am tired of squandering money on this rickety old house. I squandered a fortune on Roger and what did it get me?

square off	to oppose someone directly	Two teams of students square off and earn points for answering questions correctly. Candidates are supposed to square off in a debate and focus on the issues.
square off (for something)	to get ready for an argument or a fight	John was angry and appeared to be squaring off for a fight. When those two square off, everyone gets out of the way.
square off against (an opponent)	To confront/fight an opponent	Tonight the Los Angeles Lakers square off against the Orlando Magic.
square something off	to make something square; to trim something until it is square	You will have to square this corner off a bit so it will match the part it will be attached to. Please square off this corner.

square peg in a round hole	someone who is uncomfortable or who does not belong in a particular situation (Also the : trying to fit a square peg into a round hole, trying to combine two things that do not belong or fit together)	I feel like a square peg in a round hole at my office. Everyone else there seems so ambitious, competitive, and dedicated to the work, but I just want to make a living. Trying to teach me math is like trying to fit a square peg into a round hole. I'm convinced my brain is not built right to understand algebra.

square somebody away	to get someone or something arranged or properly taken care of	See if you can square Bob away in his new office. When you are squared away, come back and we'll talk.

square something up	to cause something to have right angles	Please square the door frames up better before you nail them in. Can you square up this box a little better?
square up (for fighting)	to get ready for an argument or a fight	John was angry and appeared to be squaring up for a fight. When those two square up, everyone gets out of the way.
square up to something/somebody	to face someone or something bravely; to tackle someone or something	You'll have to square up to the bully or he'll make your life miserable. It's time to square up to your financial problems. You can't just ignore them.
square up with somebody	to pay someone what one owes; to pay one's share of something to someone	I'll square up with you later if you pay the whole bill now. Bob said he would square up with Tom for his share of the gas.

square something with somebody	to make certain that something is approved by a particular person	I am sure I can square this matter with Sally. Sam intended to square everything with Henry when he had time.
square with somebody	to apologize to someone	I will try to square with Harold. I really am sorry, you know. Finally, Mary squared with Alice and they forgave each other.
square with somebody	to settle a disagreement with someone	I will try to square with Fred before the end of the school year. Max refused to square with Lefty and they are still feuding.
square with something	to agree with something	Tom's explanation does not square with his earlier statement. Her view fails to square with historical reality. Usage notes: usually used in the negative.
square with something	[for a statement] to agree, match, or correspond to something	Your answer doesn't square with mine. The figures I have don't square with those the government has.

squash something down	to crush something down; to pack something down	squash the ice cream down so the air will be pushed out. Who squashed down my hat?

squash something in	to crush or make something concave by squashing or mashing	The children squashed the Halloween jack-o' - ;lantern in and ruined it. someone squashed in the lampshade.

squash something into something	to press or mash something into something	she squashed the clay into the mold. she squashed in the clay and started to make a bowl.

squash something/somebody up	to grind someone or something up; to mash someone or something up	You had better stay out of the traffic, or some big truck will squash you up! The truck squashed up the tiny car.
squash up against something/somebody	to press hard up against someone or something (Usually said of something soft)	The egg squashed up against the window and splattered all over. The pumpkin squashed up against the side of the truck.

squawk about something	to complain about something	stop squawking about how much money you lost. I lost twice as much. What are you squawking about now?

squeak by	to manage just to get past a barrier represented by a person or thing, such as a difficult teacher or an examination	Judy just squeaked by Professor Smith, who has a reputation for flunking students. I took the test and just squeaked by.
squeak by	to manage just to squeeze past someone or something	I squeaked by the fat man in the hallway only to find myself blocked by another. I just barely squeaked by.

squeak something through	to manage just to get something accepted or approved	I just managed to squeak the proposal through. Tom squeaked the application through at the last minute.
squeak through	to manage just to get past a barrier, such as an examination or interview	Sally just barely squeaked through the interview, but she got the job. I wasn't too alert and I just squeaked through.
squeak through	to manage just to squeeze through an opening	The child squeaked through the opening and escaped. Sally squeaked through and got away.

squeal (on somebody) (to somebody)	to report someone to someone	Max was afraid that the witness would squeal on him to the cops. Sally threatened to squeal to the boss. Please promise you won't squeal on me!

squeeze (themselves) together	[for creatures] to press close together	The little pigs squeezed themselves together to get a better chance at some food. They squeezed together and gobbled their dinner. They squeezed themselves together to keep warm.
squeeze something/somebody together	to press people or things together	The driver squeezed us together so he could get more people in the taxi. See if you can squeeze the vegetables together a little so we can get more in the basket.

squeeze (themselves) up	[for people] to press themselves closely together	Everyone squeezed themselves up in the tiny car so there would be room for one more. Let's squeeze up so Jamie can sit down. They squeezed themselves up so they would take less space.
squeeze something/somebody up	to press people or things close together	The usher tried to squeeze us up so she could seat more people. Don't squeeze up the cars too tight in the parking area.

squeeze by (something/somebody)	to manage just to press oneself past someone or something	The hall was crowded and I had to squeeze by a number of rotund gentlemen. I squeezed by the crowd and ran on to my appointment.

squeeze somebody/something out (of something)	to prevent someone or something from having an opportunity	High prices for houses squeezed many people out of the market. Big Fellow Hamburger Stands tried illegally to squeeze out its competitors.
squeeze something out of somebody/something	to get something with great effort from someone or something	Albert was good at thinking of ways to squeeze money out of his father in England. Fred didn't like to tell the truth, and you had to squeeze it out of him.
squeeze something out of somebody/something	to press something until something is expelled from something	Claire squeezed some toothpaste out of the tube. She squeezed out some toothpaste.

squeeze something from something	to get a little more of something from something	Let's see if we can squeeze a few more miles from this tank of gas before we fill up again. I think I can squeeze another few minutes from this candle before I have to light a new one.
squeeze something from something	to press something out of something; to press on something until something comes out	Betty squeezed some toothpaste from the tube. Don't squeeze so much mustard from the bottle.

squeeze something/somebody into something	to press or push someone or something into something small	Let's see if we can squeeze everyone into the car. Let's squeeze in one more.

squeeze something/somebody through (something)	to push and compress until someone or something passes through something	John's cellmate managed to squeeze John through the window just before the guards walked by. I squeezed some food through the crack and the trapped miner was glad to get it.
squeeze through something	to manage to press oneself through an opening	I think I can squeeze through the window and get out of this place. The cat squeezed through a hole in the fence and got away.

squint at something/somebody	to look at someone or something with the eyes partly closed (When squinting, the eyes are partly closed by pressing the upper and lower eyelids toward one another)	Why are you squinting at me? I had to squint at the small print in order to read it.

squint out of something	to cast one's gaze from something, such as a place of concealment, with one's eyes partly closed	The prisoner squinted out of the little hatch in the door to his cell. You could see that many people were squinting out of the windows, trying to get a good view of the movie star who was visiting.
squint out of something	to cast one's gaze through something, such as glasses, one eye, etc., with one's eyes partly closed	she squinted out of one eye in the bright sun. Tony squinted out of his glasses and his mother decided that he needed to have his eyes checked again.

squirm in(to something)	to press into something that is tight; to crawl or wiggle into something tight (For people, this is often clothing that is too tight; For other creatures, it is more variable)	Dave squirmed into his jeans and pledged to himself that he would lose some weight. He squirmed in and knew he could never close the zipper.

squirm out	to crawl or wiggle out of something	The worm squirmed out of its hole and was gobbled up by a bird. The worm squirmed out. Fig. to escape doing something; to escape the responsibility for having done something. He agreed to go but squirmed out at the last minute. You did it and you can't squirm out of it by denying it!

squirm with something	to fidget or move around restlessly, showing irritation of some type	The children squirmed with impatience, but they kept quiet. I squirmed with discomfort, hoping that the time on the aircraft would pass rapidly.

squirrel something away	to hide something or store something in the way that a squirrel stores nuts for use in the winter	I squirreled a little money away for an occasion such as this. Liz squirreled away a lot of money while she was working.

squirt from something	[for a liquid] to be ejected in a spurt from something	The water squirted from the hose. Juice squirted from the orange when I squeezed it.

squirt out(of something/somebody)	[for something, especially a liquid] to gush or spurt forth from someone or something	In the horror movie, black stuff squirted out of this guy whenever he got angry. A lot of blood squirted out of the gash and I closed my eyes.
squirt something out of something	to cause something to spurt out of something	He squirted a bit of the vaccine out of the syringe, making sure the needle was not clogged. He squirted out a bit of the vaccine.

squirt something at something/somebody	to direct a device for squirting liquid at someone or something	Tom squirted the hose at the cat. Who is squirting the firehose at the front of the house?
squirt something at something/somebody	to direct a narrow stream of liquid onto someone or something	They squirted the water at the cat and it ran away. Who is squirting catsup at people?

stab at something/somebody	to thrust at someone or something with something sharp, such as a knife	The horrid man stabbed at me and missed. The stork stabbed at the frog with its beak.
stab something at something/somebody	to thrust something at someone or something	The hunter stabbed a stick at the bear to see if there was any life at all left in it. The stork tried to stab its beak at me as I held it, but I held tight while the vet examined it.

stab somebody in something	to stab someone in a particular place	Max stabbed a prison guard in the belly and left him to die. Tom stabbed himself in the thigh by accident.

stack something against something/somebody	to make a pile of something that leans against someone or something (See also stack the deck (against someone or something))	Watch what you are doing! Why are you stacking the books against me? They will fall when I move. stack the books against the wall.

stack something up	to make a stack of things (Also without the up)	Where should I stack them up? Please stack up these boxes.
stack up	[for something] to accumulate, as in stacks	Your work is stacking up. You will have to work late to finish it. I hate to let my work stack up. I have to do it sooner or later.
stack up (against something)	to compare with something else	We wondered how London restaurants stacked up against Atlanta's.
stack up to something/somebody	[for someone or something] to measure up favorably when compared to someone or something	How do you think I stack up to Liz? My car stacks up pretty well to yours.

stack the deck (against something/somebody)	to arrange things against someone or something (Originally from card playing; stacking the deck is to cheat by arranging the cards to be dealt out to one's advantage)	I can't get ahead at my office. Someone has stacked the cards against me. Do you really think that someone has stacked the deck? Isn't it just fate?

stagger around	to go about tottering or wobbling, especially as if drunk	The wounded man staggered around and then fell. A lot of people came out of the party and staggered around.

stagger from something	to move out of a place, tottering	The drunk staggered from the tavern and fell into the gutter. The wounded man staggered from the door and called for help.

stagger in(to some place)	to walk into some place, tottering	The old man staggered into the room and collapsed. He staggered in and fell down.

stagger out (of some place)	to walk out of some place, tottering	The drunk staggered out of the tavern and fell down. She staggered out and sat on the curb.

stagger under something	to struggle or totter under a serious burden, either a heavy object or a serious problem or responsibility	The welfare budget is staggering under the burden of having to care for many people. Sam staggered under the heavy load and finally fell.

stain something with something	to affect the coloring of something through the use of a chemical stain (A purposeful act, much the same as painting)	Walter stained the house with a long-lasting reddish stain. We decided to stain the doors with a special varnish rather than paint them.
stain something with something	to cause a blemish or blotch on something with something (Usually an accident)	Judy stained the carpet with some grape juice. You will stain your clothing with that food if you drop any of it.
stain something with something	to injure or blemish someone's reputation	They stained his reputation with their charges. I don't want to do anything that would stain my reputation.

stake to something/somebody !

stake one's reputation on something/somebody	to risk harming one's reputation on someone or something	Of course Denise is great. I will stake my reputation on her! It may be so, but I wouldn't stake my reputation on it.

stake out something	to claim something belongs to you	To avoid a long wait to eat lunch, one of you stakes out a table and the other gets the food. Lars staked out a cot in a third-floor bedroom and tried to make it seem like his own space.
stake out something	to secretly watch a place	Private detectives staked out their house, went through their garbage, and interviewed their neighbors.
stake somebody out	watch someone, often secretly	A television news crew staked her out from a next-door neighbor's yard. For a week, police staked out the suspect.
stake something/somebody out	to position a person so that someone or something can be observed or followed	The cops staked the car out and made the arrest. Barlowe staked out the apartment building and watched patiently for an hour.
stake something/somebody out	to position a person to observe someone or something	He staked his best operative out in front of the building. We staked out two men to keep watch.

stake somebody to something	to make a loan of something to someone	I will stake you to a hundred bucks if that will help. Jed refused to stake Tex to a loan.

stake something off	to mark out the boundaries of an area of land with stakes	The prospectors staked an area off for themselves. The prospectors staked off an area in which they would look for gold.

stalk in(to some place)	to stride into a place, perhaps indignantly	Carl stalked into the manager's office and began his tirade. He stalked in and began to complain.

stall something/somebody for something	to delay someone or something for a period of time	I stalled him for as long as I could. I could not stall the proceedings for another second.

stall something/somebody off	to put off or delay someone or something	The sheriff is at the door. I'll stall him off while you get out the back door. You can stall off the sheriff, but you can't stall off justice.

stammer something out	to manage to say something, but only haltingly	Fred stammered the words out haltingly. He stammered out the name of the winner.

stamp out	еo eliminate	The senator started a campaign to stamp out smoking in high schools.
stamp out something	if someone rubber-stamps a decision or a plan, they give it official approval, often without thinking about it enough (Usage notes: If someone official has examined a document, they often put a special mark on it using a rubber stamp (= a small printing device made of rubber))	School governors will not simply rubber-stamp what teachers have already decided. The court was asked to rubber-stamp the Department's decision to free the men.
stamp out something	to stop or destroy something	How long have we been trying to stamp out drugs? Everyone enjoys these games, although some people want to stamp them out.
stamp somebody out	to get rid of or kill someone (on stamp something out)	You just can't stamp somebody out on your own! The victim wanted to stamp out the robbers without a trial.

stamp something (up)on something/somebody	to affix an informative label onto someone or something, as with a rubber stamp (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The attendant stamped a date upon each person who entered the dance hall. The person at the door stamped something on my hand when I came in.

stamp something onto something	to affix an informative label onto something, as with a rubber stamp	she stamped her name and address onto all her books. Tom stamped his identification onto all his papers and books.

stamp something out	to eliminate something	The doctors hope they can stamp cancer out. Many people think that they can stamp out evil.
stamp something out of something/somebody	to eliminate a characteristic of someone or something; to destroy a characteristic of someone or something	I would really like to stamp that mean streak out of you. We were not able to stamp the excess costs out of the proposal and had to reject it. We couldn't stamp out their bad behavior.

stamp something/somebody as something	to label someone or something as something; to mark someone or something as something	His manner stamped him as a fool. The committee stamped the proposal as wasteful.

stamp something/somebody with something	to affix a label onto someone or something with something; to apply a particular message or symbol onto someone or something, as with a rubber stamp	Judy stamped everyone who went into the dance with a symbol that showed that each had paid admission. Mary stamped the bill with the PAID symbol.

stampede in(to some place)	[for a crowd of people or other creatures] to move rapidly into a place, as if in panic	The shoppers stampeded into the store the minute the doors opened. The doors opened and the shoppers stampeded in.

stampede out of	some place [for a crowd of people or other creatures] to move rapidly out of a place, as if in panic	The patrons stampeded out of the smoky theater. The cattle stampeded out of the corral.

stampede something/somebody into something	to cause people or other creatures to move rapidly into a place, in panic or as if in panic	The loud noises stampeded the crowd into the parking lot across from the stadium. The cowboys stampeded the cattle into the corral.

stand (somebody) up	еo not arrive for a date (with someone)	She was really angry when he stood her up on Saturday.

stand around	Don't stand around. Get busy!

stand by	Stand by while I search for another song.

stand for	to represent	VIP stands for very important person.
stand for something

stand in (for)	Sam is sick. Can you stand in for him?

stand out	to be very different (in a positive way)	Maria is the kind of girl who really stands out in a crowd.
stand out from !
stand to !

stand somebody to a treat	to pay for a treat for someone	Come on. Let's go out and eat. I'll stand you to a treat. It seems as if I am always standing someone to a treat.

stand of !

stand up	to rise from a sitting position	The pupils stood up when the headmaster arrived. She stood up and looked across the room.
stand up for (a cause, etc.)	to actively support (a cause, etc.)
stand up to	To defend oneself against	The boy showed a lot of courage in standing up to the school bully.

stand/stick out !

star as something/somebody	[for someone] to be a featured performer, representing a particular person, or play in a particular role	Judy starred as Evita in the broadway production of the same name. Mary starred as an aging countess.

star in something	to be a featured actor in a play, movie, opera, etc.	Roger starred in an off-Broadway play last season. Mary always wanted to star in her own movie, but it was not to be.

stare at
stare at (something/somebody)
stare at something/somebody	to look fixedly at someone or something	Why are you staring at me? I was staring at the scenery behind you.

stare into something	to gaze fixedly into something	she just sat there, staring into space. Tom stared into the water, hoping to see a fish or maybe a turtle.

stare somebody down	to pressure someone to capitulate, back down, or yield by staring	Don't try to stare me down. I have nerves of steel. I tried to stare down my opponent, but it didn't work.

stare somebody in !

start (off) with !

start out	to begin	He started out as a dishwasher.
start somebody out !

start over	Sorry, I guess I messed this up, so can I start over?

start up	Start your car up and let's go.

startle somebody out of something	to frighten someone very badly (The something that may be lost may be expressed as wits, senses, ten years' growth, etc.)	The explosion startled Polly out of her senses. I frightened myself out often years' growth.

starve (somebody or an animal) into something	to force someone or an animal to do something by starvation	The torturers finally starved the prisoner into telling the battle plans. They starved the water buffalo into a state of weakness.

starve (somebody or an animal) out of some place	to force a living creature to come out of a hiding place or a place of security by starvation	The attackers tried to starve the people out of the walled city. We tried to starve out the mice.

starve for some food	to be very hungry for something	I am just starved for some fresh peaches. We were starved for dinner by the time we finally got to eat.
starve for something/somebody	to have a strong desire or need for someone or something (Based on starved for some food)	I am starved for Jane. I miss her so! Claire was starved for affection.

stash something away	to hide something; to set something aside for use at a later time	Please stash this away somewhere. You may need it someday. You should stash away some money for later.

stash something in something	to put or shove something into something; to store or hide something in something	You should stash your food in a place that is safe from bears when you go camping. I stashed my clothes in my suitcase and called a taxi.

state of !

stave off something	to delay or postpone something unwanted, such as hunger, foreclosure, death, etc. (See also stave someone or something off)	He could stave his thirst off no longer. Despite the enemy sentries, he made a dash for the stream. The lost hiker could not stave off her hunger any longer.
stave off something	to keep something away or keep something from happening	The Federal Reserve lowered interest rates to boost the economy and stave off a recession. Death is natural and inevitable - we can't stave it off forever.
stave something/somebody off	to hold someone or something off; to defend against the attack of someone or something (See also stave something off)	The citizen was not able to stave the mugger off. The army staved off the attackers for three hours without letup.

stave something in	to crush something in (The past tense is usually stove with ships, and otherwise, staved)	The rocks on the reef staved the hull of the ship in. The angry sailor staved in the cask of rum.

stay in	to stay at home; to not go out	Can my friend stay over, please?

stay on	to remain

stay over	to sleep over; to sleep at someone's house overnight	Can I stay over tonight?

stay up	To stay awake; Not to go to bed	Jamie's parents let him stay up until 11:00 PM on weekends.

steal at something/somebody !

steal on somebody/something !

steal away (from something/somebody)	to sneak away from someone or something	She stealed away while he was refilling her coffee. The thief stole away from the policeman. We stole away from the boring lecture.

steal from something/somebody	to rob someone or something	You wouldn't steal from a poor man, would you? Max didn't feel bad about stealing from a bank.
steal something from something/somebody	to take the property belonging to someone or something without permission; to commit the theft of something from someone or something	Max stole $50 from Henry. Lefty stole an apple from the fruit stand.

steal out of some place	to sneak quietly out of some place	The critic stole out of the theater, unable to endure any more of the abysmal play. I stole out of the lecture and went back to my room.

steal over something/somebody	[for a covering of some sort] to move slowly over someone or something (As with the sun or the shade of a cloud)	The shade stole over the sunbathers and ended their day. Darkness stole over the land.
steal over something/somebody	[for a feeling] to spread through someone gradually	A feeling of gloom stole over the crowd. A sense of high excitement stole over the boys as they waited.

steal something off somebody	to rob something from someone	I think that guy who walked past me stole my wallet off me! Max stole a lot of money off tourists last season.

steam across something	[for a ship] to cross a body of water under power (Originally referred to steam engines, but now can be any sort of engine)	How long does it take to steam across the Atlantic these days? We steamed across the bay in less than an hour.

steam in (something)	[for a vehicle, usually a ship] to enter something under power (Originally referred to steam engines, but now can be any sort of engine)	The ship steamed into the harbor and headed for the pier. Right on time, the ship steamed in.

steam out (of some place)	[for a conveyance, usually a ship] to exit something under power (Originally referred to steam engines, but now can be any sort of engine)	The huge diesel engines began to labor, and the ship steamed out of its berth. It shuddered a couple of times and steamed out.
steam something out of something	to remove something embedded, through an application of steam	The cleaner was not able to steam the wrinkles out of my jacket. I tried to steam out the gum.

steam somebody up	si to get someone angry	This whole mess steamed me up but good. The long critical statement simply steamed up my opponent in the debate.
steam somebody up	to get someone excited	steam yourselves up and get in there and win this game! The coach can really steam up those guys.

steam something off (of) something	to loosen and remove something by an application of steam (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Toby steamed the old paper off the wall. Toby steamed off the old wallpaper.

steam something up	to cause something to be covered with water vapor due to the presence of steam	Our breaths steamed the windows up. The hot shower steamed up the mirror.
steam up	to become covered with a film of steam or water vapor	The windows steamed up and we had to wipe them so we could see out. The window has steamed up, and I can't see.
steam up	to drink heavily; to get drunk	Fred and Mike were steaming up in the back room.
steam up something	to become covered with a thin layer of small water drops	Going into the warm room steamed my glasses up. They were sitting in the back seat of the car and the windows were all steamed up.

steel somebody against something/somebody	to fortify someone against someone or something; to prepare someone to endure someone or something	I tried to steel Liz against Carl, who was bringing her some very bad news. We steeled her against the bad news.

steep somebody in something	to immerse someone in some kind of knowledge or other experience; to saturate someone with some kind of experience or training (on steep something in something)	Her parents steeped her in good literature and music. she steeped herself in the legends of her people.

steer away from something/somebody	to move or turn away from someone or something	You had better steer away from Jeff. He is in a terrible mood. Try to steer away from the potholes. The road is full of them.

steer clear (of somebody/something)	to avoid someone or something	I'd steer clear of Joe if I were you - he's in a terrible mood. They invited me to comment on the proposals, but I think I would rather steer clear. Usage notes: usually the person or thing you avoid is dangerous or likely to cause trouble.
steer clear (of somebody/something)	to avoid something or someone because they are dangerous or bad for you	I'd steer clear of Joe if I were you - he'll only cause trouble. I try to steer clear of heavy meals these days.
steer clear (of something/somebody)	to avoid someone or something	John is mad at me, so I've been steering clear of him. Steer clear of that book. It has many errors in it.

steer into something	to turn or drive into something	Try to steer into the right parking space this time. Poor Wally steered into the curb.

steer something for something	to aim oneself or one's vehicle toward something	Jeff steered the car for the entrance to the tunnel and stepped on the gas. The driver steered the bus for the center lane just in time.

steer something toward something/somebody	to guide something in the direction of someone or something	The farmer steered the tractor toward the sheriff, who had come to talk to the farmer. Please steer the car toward the right side.

steer something/somebody through something	to guide someone or something through something that is confusing or treacherous	I tried to steer Judy through the registration procedure, but I really didn't know what I was doing. should I try to steer my car through all this foot traffic or take a different route?
steer through something	to maneuver through something that is confusing or treacherous	Do you think you can steer through this flooded tunnel? I can't steer through this mess of leaves and mud on the road.

stem from something	to result from something	His fear of snakes stems from an incident in his childhood.

step aside	Step aside, please. You're in my way.

step down	to leave a job, position, etc.	I'm sorry, Mr. Johnson stepped out for a bit. He'll be back in 30 minutes.

step in	to break up (a fight, argument, etc.)	The principal stepped in when he saw the two boys arguing.

step into !

step on !

step out	to leave (for a brief period of time)	I'm sorry, Mr. Johnson stepped out for a bit. He'll be back in 30 minutes.

step up to the plate	to take responsibility for doing something	It is time companies stepped up to the plate and made sure the meat they sell is safe to eat.

step/tread on !

stew in !

stick around	to not go anywhere	I think I'll stick around for a bit.

stick out !

stick to something	continue doing something, limit yourself to one particular thing	You will lose weight if you stick to the diet.

stick together	We must stick together.

stick up for	defend	It's important to stick up for one's principles.

stiffen something up	to make something rigid or tense	He added a little starch to the rinse water to stiffen his collars up a bit. The cold draft has stiffened up my neck.
stiffen up	to become stiff	The bread dough stiffened up as it got cold. My knees began to stiffen up after I sat still for an hour.

stimulate (somebody or an animal) into something	to excite or cause someone or an animal to do something	The promises of bonuses stimulated the workers into higher productivity for the week. The morning light stimulates the birds into singing.

stink on !

stink something up	to make something or some place smell very bad	Your cooking really stunk the place up! The rotten eggs will stink up the whole house.
stink up something	to do something very badly	Every time I begin a new job, I worry that I'm gonna stink it up, you know? (Usage notes: sometimes used to suggest that an experience causes you to react as you would to a bad smell). The Dolphins stunk up Rich Stadium by losing 40-0.
stink up something	to make a place smell unpleasant	Take the garbage out before it stinks up the entire house.

stink to high heaven	to smell very bad	What happened? This place stinks to high heaven. This meat smells to high heaven. Throw it away!

stir somebody (in)to something	to excite someone into doing something	The events of the day stirred everyone into action. The danger stirred them to action.

stir somebody up	to get someone excited; to get someone angry (on stir something up)	The march music really stirred the audience up. The march stirred up the audience.
stir something up	to cause trouble	Why are you always trying to stir trouble up? Are you stirring up trouble again?
stir something up	to mix something by stirring	Please stir the pancake batter up before you use it. Please stir up the batter.
stir up somebody/something	to cause a situation that upsets many people	One official claimed that foreign activists were stirring up trouble. The threat of censorship stirred up a hornet's nest of criticism on the Internet.

stir something around	to agitate or mix a liquid substance by moving it in a circular motion	stir the mixture around to mix it up. You should stir the dressing around a bit before you serve it.

stir something into something	to mix something into something	The painter stirred too much red pigment into the paint. The painter stirred in the pigment.

stitch something onto something	to sew something onto the surface of something else	Fred stitched the badge onto his jacket. Fred stitched on the badge.

stitch something up	to sew something together; to mend a tear or ripped seam	I tore my shirt. Would you stitch it up, please? Please stitch up my shirt.

stock in !

stock something (up) with something	to load something with a supply of something	Let's stock the wine cellar with good vintages this year. We will stock up our wine cellar with whatever is on sale.
stock up (on something)	to buy a large amount of something so that you will have enough for future use	When there's a storm coming we always stock up on food and candles.
stock up (with something)	to build up a supply of something	You had better stock up with firewood before the first snowstorm. Yes, I will stock up today.

stoke something up	to poke or add fuel to a fire to make it burn hotter	Grandpa had to go down each winter morning to stoke the fire up. He stoked up the furnace every morning during the winter.
stoke something up	to start something, such as an engine	stoke this old car up so we can leave. stoke up your motorcycle and let's get going.

stoop down	to dip, duck, or squat down	I had to stoop down to enter the tiny door. Stoop down so you don't bump your head.

stoop over	to bend over	Carl stooped over to pick up his napkin and lost his balance. As he stooped over, he lost his balance and fell.

stoop to something	to degrade oneself or condescend to doing something; to do something that is beneath one	Whoever thought that the manager of the department would stoop to sweeping up? I never dreamed that Bill would stoop to stealing.
stoop to something	to do something that makes your moral standards lower (Usage notes: often used in the forms stoop to someone's level or stoop to the level of dong something)	They have stooped to using threats of violence in order to get their way. The president shouldn't stoop to the level of exchanging insults.

stop (somebody) from ([doing] something)

stop by	Please stop by before you go on vacation.

stop from	His teacher wants him to stop from answering all the questions in class. He was stopping from going in.

stop over	We stopped over in	Chicago for two nights.

store something away	to put something away for future use; to set something aside	Store the extra rice away for use next week. Please store away the extra food.

store something in something	to set something aside in something	Can I store my bicycle in your garage? Do you mind if I store my coat in your locker?

storm around	to go about in a fury	What is he storming around about? Martin was storming around all morning because he lost his car keys.

storm at something/somebody	to direct one's anger at someone or something	She stormed at him because he was late again. Richard was storming at the cat again.

storm in (to some place)	to burst into something or some place angrily	The army stormed into the town and took many of the citizens as prisoners. Leonard stormed in, shouting at everyone.
storm in(to)	He stormed into the room, shouting and yelling.

storm out (of some place)	to burst out of some place angrily	Carol stormed out of the office in a rage. She got mad and stormed out.
storm out (of)	He got angry and stormed out of the meeting.

stow away	to conceal oneself in a vehicle, originally a ship, in order to travel without paying	Don got to this country by stowing away on a cargo ship.
stow something away	to pack something away	I have to stow my clothes away before I go to bed. Please stow away your things and get right to work.

straighten (something) out	to make something clear(er); To make something less confusing	They was a mistake on my phone bill, but the phone company straightened it our for me.
straighten out	to improve one's behavior or attitude	I hope he straightens out before he gets himself into real trouble. Fred had better straighten out soon if he wants to get a job.
straighten out	to become straight	 We have to straighten this mess out. They straightened out the line of people.The road finally straightened out. The train tracks straightened out on the plain.
straighten out something; straighten something out
straighten somebody out	to cause someone to behave better or to have a better attitude; to reform someone	You are terrible. Someone is going to have to straighten you out! The principal straightened out the troublesome boys.
straighten somebody out	to cause someone's behavior or character to improve	I thought marriage would straighten him out but it hasn't. He plays the part of an uncle trying to straighten out a troubled teenager.
straighten somebody out	to help someone become less confused about something	Can you straighten me out on this matter? I will do what I can to straighten out the office staff on this question.
straighten somebody out	to improve one's behavior or attitude and perform better (Originally referred to an airplane)	If you want to keep out of trouble, you had better straighten up and fly right. Straighten up and fly right or I will send you to the principal.
straighten somebody out	to make someone's body straight or orderly	The undertaker straightened Sam out in his coffin. Straighten out your body so I can massage your back.
straighten something out	to bring order to something that is disorderly	See if you can straighten this mess out. Will you straighten out your room, please?
straighten something out	to arrange or organize something that is in disorder	It took her a while to straighten out her father's accounts. When her husband died, there were problems with his will, and it took her a year to straighten them all out.
straighten something out	to end uncertainty or confusion about something	I'm sorry if our letter was confusing, but I'll straighten that out now. Sometimes I'll feel there's something I need to straighten out because no one's sure what to expect.
straighten something out	to make something straighter	I can't straighten these heavy boxes out. Please straighten out this line of people.

straighten something/somebody up	to put someone or something into an upright position	The fence is tilted. Please straighten that post up when you get a chance. Bill, you're slouching again. Straighten up your back.
straighten something/somebody up	to tidy up someone or something	John straightened himself up a little before going out for dinner. This room is a mess. Let's straighten up this place, right now!
straighten up	to behave better	Bill was acting badly for a while; then he straightened up. Sally, straighten up, or I will punish you!
straighten up	to sit or stand more straight	Billy's mother told him to straighten up or he'd fall out of his chair. John straightened up so he'd look taller.
straighten up	to start behaving in a more acceptable or correct way	If you don't straighten up, I'm going to suspend you from this school.
straighten up something	to make things neat	Be sure to straighten up your room before you leave. It was only four-thirty, and she still had time to straighten things up before the guests arrived.
straighten up something; straighten something up

strain after something	[for a singer] to work very hard to reach a very high or a very low note	Don't strain after the note. Let it come naturally, like a cooling breeze. She was straining after each note as if it hurt her to sing, which it probably did.

strain at !

strain away (at something)	to work very hard, continuously, at doing something	She strained away at her weights, getting stronger every day. She was straining away on the rowing machine when we came in.

strain something off of something	to remove the excess or unwanted liquid from something	The cook strained the grease off the cooking juices. The cook strained off the grease.

strain something through something	to filter a liquid or a watery substance by pouring it through something	Tony strained the strawberry jelly through cheesecloth. We will have to strain the clabber to take out the curds.

strand somebody on something	to abandon someone on something from which there is no escape	The shipwreck stranded our little group on a deserted beach. We were stranded on the little island by a storm.

strangle something at birth	to stop something at an early stage of its development	Plans to provide better nursery care are being strangled at birth by lack of funding.

strap something on to something/somebody	to tie or bind something onto someone or something	The hiker strapped the load onto her partner. She strapped on the backpack.

strap something/somebody down	to tie or bind someone or something down to something	The nurses strapped Gary down in preparation for the operation. They strapped down the patient and gave him a sedative.

strap something/somebody in(to) something	to tie or bind someone or something into something	Mother strapped little Jimmy into his seat. She strapped in Jimmy.

stray (away) (from something)	to drift away from or wander away from a particular topic or location (The option elements cannot be transposed)	Please don't stray from the general area of discussion. Sally strayed away from her topic a number of times.

stray in(to something)	to wander into something	The deer strayed into the town and ruined almost everyone's garden. We left the gate open, and the cows strayed in and drank from the pond.

streak across something	to move across something very fast	A comet streaked across the night sky. Tom streaked across the street to get a cup of coffee.

streak of !

stream down (on something/somebody)	[for a liquid or light] to flow downward onto someone or something	The water streamed down on all of them. The light broke through the clouds and streamed down on all of them. The waterfall streamed down and soaked them all.

stream in(to something)	to flow or rush into something	The people streamed into the hall, each seeking the best possible seat. Water streamed into the room from the broken pipe. Complaints about the bawdy performance streamed in.

stretch away (from something)	to extend away from something	A vast plain stretched away from the riverbank. The plain stretched away as far as we could see.
stretch away to	some place to extend as far as some place	The forest stretched away to the horizon. The river stretched away to the sea.

stretch forth (from something)	to extend out or forth from something	A path stretched forth from the cabin, leading deep into the woods. Outside the cabin door, a path stretched forth.

stretch out	[for one] to extend and stretch one's body to its full length	She lay down, stretched out, and relaxed for the first time in days. I need a bigger bed. I can't stretch out in this one.
stretch out to something/somebody	to extend as far as someone or something	His arm stretched out to the guy next to him and established the correct amount of separation in the ranks. The beach stretched out to the horizon.
stretch something out (to something/somebody)	to reach something out to someone or something	Jeff stretched his hand out to Tiffany. He stretched out his hand to the visitor.
stretch something/somebody out	to extend or draw out someone or something	Molly stretched the baby out to change his clothes. She stretched out the baby, who had rolled into a ball.

strew something (all) over something	to sow or spread something over an area	Clean this place up! You have strewn your clothing all over the place. The wind strewed the leaves over the lawns.
strew something over something/somebody	to spread or scatter something over someone or something	The silo explosion strewed the grain over everyone in the vicinity. The explosion strewed wreckage over a two-block area.

strew something on something/somebody	to sow or spread something on someone or something	The wind strewed the dandelion seeds on Fred and his friends. A child went down the aisle, strewing flowers on the white walkway ahead of the bride.

strew something with something	to cover something with bits of something	Who strewed the sidewalk with rice and confetti? The yards were strewn with leaves and branches after the storm.

stride in(to some place)	to walk with long steps into some place	Jeff strode into the restaurant and demanded the best table. He strode in and ordered roast chicken.

stride out of	some place to walk with long steps out of some place	The angry customer strode out of the shop without purchasing anything. We strode out of the restaurant, pledging never to go there again.

strike up !

string (somebody) along	To keep someone in a state of false hope/ deception.
string along	to agree with someone's policies and actions	Okay. I will string along with you this time, but I don't know about the future. I would appreciate it if you would string along just this one time.
string along	to follow with someone	Do you mind if I string along with you? I don't mind if you string along.

string out something	to be spread in a long, thin line	Most of Canada's population is strung out along its border with the United States. The early fast pace soon strung the field of runners out over more than a mile.
string out something	to make something continue	Zeb hoped he could string out his vacation as long as possible. The legal process could string this dispute out for years.
string something out	to cause something to take more time than it ought to	Is there any good reason to string this meeting out any longer? Don't string out the meetings so long.
string something out	to unwind, stretch, or straighten something, such as wire, and extend it	The workers strung the wires out before installing them. They strung out the wires first.

string somebody along	to maintain someone's attention or interest, probably insincerely	You are just stringing me along because you like to borrow my car. You are not a real friend. Rachel strung her along for the sake of old times.

string somebody up	to hang someone	The sheriff swore he would string Tex up whenever he caught him. He never strung up Tex.

string something together	to connect things, such as beads, together, as with string	I spent all afternoon stringing beads together. My pearls broke and I had to take them to a jeweler to have them strung together again.

strip down	The doctor told me to strip down for the examination.
strip down	to remove one's clothing	The doctor told Joe to strip down for his examination. Joe stripped down for the examination.
strip something/somebody down to something	to remove the covering of someone or something down to the lowest level	The emergency room nurse stripped the unconscious patient down to his shorts. He stripped down the patient to his underwear. He stripped the patient down.

strip for something	to take off one's clothing for something	Todd went into the locker room and stripped for his shower. All the recruits stripped for their medical examination.

strip something away (from something/somebody)	to remove or peel something from someone or something	The emergency room nurse stripped the clothing away from the burn victim. He stripped away the victim's clothing. Jamie stripped away the old paint from the bathroom wall.

strip something in	to insert something into a line of print by gluing or a strip of paper	You will have to strip the accent in. Strip in a grave accent right here.

strip something off (of) something/somebody	to tear something from someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The paramedic stripped the shirt off the burn victim and began to treat her burns. The medic stripped off the patient's shirt.

strip something/somebody of something	to take something, such as status or property, away from someone or something	The court stripped him of all his property. We stripped him of his rights when we put him in jail.

strive after something	to try very hard to obtain something	I am always striving after perfection. Ted was striving after a promotion and finally got it.

strive against something	to work against something	He worked hard, striving against failure at every turn. Things were difficult. I had to strive against quitting almost every day.

strive for something	to try to obtain or bring about something	I am striving for the best possible result. Mary strives for perfection in everything she does.

strive to do something	to try hard to do something	She strove very hard to do what she had set out to do. Please strive to do it as best you can.

strive toward something	to work toward a goal	DI always strive toward perfection. Mary strove toward doing her best at all times.

stroll around	to walk around casually	I think I will stroll around a bit this evening. Would you like to stroll around a little and see the sights?

struggle against something/somebody	to strive or battle against someone or something	There is no point in struggling against me. I will win out. He struggled against the disease for a year before he died.

struggle along (with something/somebody)	to make do as well as one can with someone or something	I really need someone who can work faster, but I'll struggle along with Walter. We struggled along the best we could.
struggle along under something	to make do as well as one can under a particular burden	I will have to struggle along under these poor conditions for quite a while. I am sorry you have to struggle along under such burdens.

struggle for something	to strive to obtain something	I was struggling for a law degree when I won the lottery. I had to struggle for everything that came my way.

struggle on with something	to make do as well as one can with something	I will have to struggle on with the car that I have. We will struggle on with what we have, hoping for better someday.

struggle through (something)	to get through something in the best way possible	I am going to struggle through this dull book to the very end. The course was dull, but I struggled through.

struggle to do something	to strive or battle to do something	She struggled hard to meet her deadlines. We had to struggle to make ends meet.
struggle to !

struggle with somebody (for something)	to fight with someone to obtain something	Max struggled with Lefty for the gun, and it went off. Timmy struggled with Bobby for the bicycle, and finally David took it away from both of them.
struggle with something/somebody	to fight or battle with someone or something	Fred struggled with Tom for a while and finally gave in. Tom struggled with the disease for a while and finally succumbed to it.

strum something on something	to brush or play with the fingers some stringed instrument, such as a guitar	She strummed a nice little melody on her guitar. He strummed the accompaniment on the guitar.

strut around	to stride around pompously	Stop strutting around in your new jeans and get to work! Tex was strutting around, showing off his new boots.

strut in (to some place)	to stride pompously into a place	He strutted into the house as if he owned the place. Betty strutted in and sat down.

stub out something	to ram one's toe accidentally against some hard object	Don't stub your toe against that brick in the path. Claire stubbed her toe against one of the legs of the sofa. I stubbed my toe on the bottom step.
stub out something	to stop something from burning or smoking by pressing it against something	She used the edge of the ashtray to stub out her cigarette. He dropped the cigar on the street without stubbing it out.
stub something out	to put out something, such as a cigarette or cigar, by crushing the burning end against a hard object	Max stubbed his cigar out and tossed it into the street. He stubbed out his cigar.

stuck in !

study for something	to try to learn in preparation for an examination	I have to study for my calculus exam. Have you studied for your exam yet?

stumble (upon)	I just stumbled upon her.

stumble across somebody/something	a problem which prevents someone from achieving something (often + to)	Lack of willingness to compromise is the main stumbling block to reaching a settlement. Money, obviously, is a major stumbling block in any project of this size.
stumble across somebody/something	something that prevents or obstructs progress	We'd like to buy that house, but the high price is a stumbling block. Jim's age is a stumbling block to getting another job. He's over sixty.
stumble across somebody/something	to meet someone or find something unexpectedly	Lee has stumbled across a plot to sell high-tech US weapons to international terrorists. Border Patrol agents stumbled on the drugs when they were on a routine patrol.
stumble across something/somebody	to find someone or something, usually by accident	I stumbled across an interesting book yesterday when I was shopping. Guess who I stumbled into at the library yesterday? I got lucky and stumbled on the right answer.

stumble into something/somebody	to trip and lurch into someone or something	Not seeing the brick in the path, Carl tripped and stumbled into Alice. Jamie stumbled into the wall.

stumble on something/somebody	Go to stumble across someone or something.
stumble on something/somebody	to trip over someone or something	There were three of us sleeping in the small tent. Each of us would stumble on the others whenever we went out or came in. I stumbled on the curb and twisted my ankle.

stumble over something/somebody	to trip over someone or something	Tom stumbled over Bill, who was napping on the floor. Don't stumble over the laundry basket.

stumble through something	to get through a sequence of something awkwardly and falteringly	The cast stumbled through the first act and barely finished the second. Mary stumbled through her speech and fled from the stage.

sub for something/somebody	to substitute for someone or something	I have to sub for Roger at work this weekend. Will pliers sub for the wrench you wanted?
sub somebody for (somebody else)	to substitute someone for someone else or something for something else	I will sub Chuck for Roger for this next play only. We will sub the red ones for the blue ones.

subdivide something into something	to divide something into parts	They subdivided the land into several valuable parcels. Sam tried to subdivide his large lot into three smaller lots, but the zoning commission wouldn't let him do it.

subject somebody to something
subject somebody/something to something	likely to have something, such as a physical disorder, The sick man was subject to dizzy spells	I am subject to frequent headaches.
subject somebody/something to something	to cause someone or something to experience something (Usage notes: often said about experiencing something unpleasant)	How do you feel about subjecting people to random drug testing? My daughter's only three, but I've already subjected her to all sorts of music, from bebop to hip-hop. The company's accounts were subjected to close investigation.
subject something/somebody to something	to cause someone to endure someone or something	I didn't mean to subject you to Uncle Harry. I am sorry I have to subject you to all this questioning.

subjugate somebody to somebody	to suppress someone in someone else's favor	The army sought to subjugate everyone to the king.

submerge something/somebody in something	to immerse someone or something in a liquid	The preacher submerged Jeff in the water of the river as part of the baptism ceremony. Submerge the fish in the marinade for at least two hours.

submerge something/somebody under something	to put someone or something below the surface of a liquid	The maid submerged her mistress under the surface of the water for a moment and brought her up and dried her off. They submerged themselves under the surface of the water and had a look around.

submit something/somebody to something	to allow someone or something to undergo the effects of something	I hate to submit you to all this questioning, but that is the way we do things here. Don't submit your car to a lot of misuse.
submit to something	to surrender to something; to agree to something	He submitted to the cross-examination. She will probably refuse to submit to surgery.

subordinate something/somebody to (something/somebody else)	to put someone in an inferior position to someone else; to put something in an inferior position to something else	I am going to have to subordinate you to the other manager, because she has more experience. The first thing you learn is that you must subordinate yourself to your boss.

subpoena somebody to do something	to formally deliver a document forcing someone to do something for a legal process	The attorney subpoenaed a number of witnesses to testify. I subpoenaed four witnesses to appear but none of them showed up.

subscribe to something	to agree with a policy	I don't subscribe to the scheme you have just described. You don't have to subscribe to the policy to accept it.
subscribe to something	to agree with or support an opinion, belief, or theory	I subscribe to the notion of lying down when the urge to exercise strikes me.
subscribe to something	to hold a standing order for a magazine or other periodical, or for a computer service	I subscribe to three magazines, and I enjoy them all. I don't subscribe to any of them anymore.

subsist on something	to exist on something; to stay alive on something	We can barely subsist on this amount of money. We need more! They are able to do no more than subsist on what Mrs. Harris is paid.

substitute (something) for (something else/somebody)
substitute for	Margarine can substitute for butter. Mary will substitute for Michael next week - she can teach his class for him.
substitute for something/somebody	to serve as a replacement for someone or something	I have to substitute for Roger at work this weekend. Do you think that this will substitute for the one you wanted?
substitute somebody for (somebody else)	to exchange someone or something for someone or something else; to replace someone or something with someone or something else	Shall I substitute Fred for Mary in the front office? Please substitute fish for beef on my dinner order.

subtract (something) from (something else)
subtract from	The company will subtract the cost of insurance fromyour salary. His bad temper substracts from his other good qualities.
subtract something from (something else)	to deduct or take away something from something else	Please subtract the cost of the meal from my fee. I demanded that they subtract the extra charge from my bill.

succeed as something	to flourish or prosper as a type of person	I hope I succeed as a bank teller. Jamie succeeded as an investigator.

succeed at	Mary will succeed at any task she attempts. I want to succeed at this new job.
succeed at something	to prosper or flourish in some task	I hope I can succeed at the task you have assigned me. I am sure you will succeed at it.

succeed in	He succeeded in passing the test. She succeeded in her ambition to be a teacher. He succeeded in winning the race.
succeed in ([doing] something)
succeed in something	to prosper or flourish in some position or office	I hope you succeed in your new job. We knew you would succeed in doing what you wanted to do.
succeed in/with

succeed somebody as something	to take the place of someone as something; to supplant someone in something	Jeff will succeed Claude as president of the organization. You are not allowed to succeed yourself as president.

succumb to something	to yield to something, especially a temptation, fatal disease, a human weakness, etc.	He finally succumbed to his pneumonia. She did not succumb to the disease until she was very old.

suck somebody in	to deceive someone	I try to shop carefully so that no one can take me in. I think that someone sucked in both of them. I don't know why they bought this car.
suck something in	to draw in one's belly, gut, or stomach	Suck that belly in! Suck in that gut!
suck something in	to draw something into one's mouth by sucking	She sucked the milk shake in so hard she nearly collapsed the straw. Liz sucked in the fresh air.

suck somebody into something	to cause someone to become involved in something or do something	I got sucked into their argument because I was a friend of the family. I didn't return the salesman's phone calls because I didn't want to be sucked in. Usage notes: usually used as get sucked into something or be sucked into something, as in the examples, and often said of someone who becomes involved without fully understanding the situation.
suck somebody into something	to give advice to someone about a subject that they already know more about than you	You're teaching your grandmother to suck eggs, Ted. I've been playing this game since before you were born!
suck something/somebody into something	[for a vacuum] to draw someone or something into something	The whirlpool sucked the swimmers into the depths of the river. The whirlpool sucked in a swimmer. A whirlpool nearly sucked our canoe in.

suck something from something	to draw something out of something by the application of a vacuum	Freddie used his straw to suck the last of the cola from the can. The machine sucked the water from the bottom of the barrel.

suck something up	to pick something up by suction, as with a vacuum cleaner, or through a straw	Will this vacuum suck all this dirt up? The vacuum cleaner sucked up all the dirt.
suck up (to somebody)	to praise someone in order to win their approval or good opinion	She's always sucking up to the boss, telling him how wonderful he is.
suck up to somebody	to attempt to gain influence with or favor from someone	In school, Richard was always sucking up to the teacher. Don't suck up to me. It won't do any good.

suck something/somebody down	[for a vacuum or water currents] to pull someone or something downward	The savage currents sucked the swimmers down to their death. The current sucked down the floating trees.

suck something/somebody under	[for a current or waves] to pull someone or something beneath the surface of the water	The strong rip tide almost sucked me under! It almost sucked our boat under.

sucker for something/somebody	someone who is prejudiced in favor of someone or something; someone who is drawn to someone or something	I'm a sucker for a pretty face. Ted is a sucker for any dessert with whipped cream on it. I don't know why I volunteered for this job. I'm a sucker for punishment I guess.

sucker somebody into something	to deceive someone into some sort of scam or confidence game; to play someone for a fool	Surely you don't think you can sucker me into doing something as stupid as that, do you? The con artist suckered in an unsuspecting tourist.

sue for something	to file a lawsuit in order to get something	If you so much as harm a hair on my head, I will sue for damages. Ted sued for back pay in his dispute with a former employer.
sue somebody for something	to file a lawsuit against someone in order to get something	I will sue you for damages if you do anything else to my car! She sued her employer for failure to provide a safe workplace.

sue the pants off (of) somebody	to sue someone for a lot of money (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	If they harm me in any way, I'll sue the pants off of them. He sued the pants off his landlord.

suffer from (something)
suffer from something	to endure or experience unpleasantness, a disease, or a health condition	Jeff is suffering from the flu. I'm afraid that you must suffer from the disease until it has run its course. Toby is really suffering from the cold.

suffice for something/somebody	to be sufficient for someone or something	This serving will suffice for me. Did you get enough? Will this suffice for you?

suffuse something with something	to saturate something with something, usually a color	The sun suffused the afternoon sky with orange and yellow. The bright light suffused the leaves with a golden glow.

suggest itself to somebody	[for an idea] to seem to present itself to someone	A new scheme suggested itself to Alice as she looked at the records of the last attempt. As you read this, does anything suggest itself to you?
suggest something to somebody	to make a suggestion of something to someone	The waiter suggested the roast beef to all his customers. What did you suggest to the people at the other table? They look quite pleased with their meal.

suit (oneself) up	to get into one's uniform, especially an athletic uniform	The coach told the team to suit up for the game by three o'clock. It's time to suit up! She suited herself up and went out on the court.

suit oneself to do something	one's own way; to do something to please oneself	If he doesn't want to do it my way, he can suit himself.
suit somebody to	to be very appropriate for someone	This kind of job suits me to a T. This is Sally's kind of house. It fits her to a T.
suit something/somebody to something	to match someone or something to something	I am sorry, but we don't suit the worker to the job. We find a job that suits the worker. Let's try to suit a new sports jacket to the slacks you have on.

suit somebody down to the ground	if something suits someone down to the ground, it suits them perfectly, usually because it is convenient for them	She has a young child so working from home suits her down to the ground.

sum (something) up	to give a summary of something	I would like to sum this lecture up by listing the main points I have covered. It is time for me to sum up. She summed up the president's speech in three sentences.
sum up (something)	to give a brief but complete statement	Can you sum up the arguments of this essay? The last paragraph should sum up the main points of your argument. He's a small man with a big ego - that about sums him up. To sum up, Eleanor has promised to revise the designs, and Bernard will finalize the text.

summon somebody before something/somebody	to request or order someone to appear before someone or a group	The president summoned the committee before her. The judge summoned Donna before the court.

summon somebody to something/somebody	to order or request someone to come to someone or something	Uncle Fred summoned the waitress to him. He summoned her to our table.

summon something up	to call forth particular qualities, such as strength, courage, wisdom, etc.	She summoned her courage up and went into the room. Liz summoned up all her courage.

superimpose something on (to) something/somebody	to cover an image of someone or something with an image of something	We superimposed a mustache onto Toby's face, and he looked just like the suspect. When we superimposed the mustache on him, we knew he was guilty.

superior to

supply something (to something/somebody) (from something)	to provide someone or something with something from some source	I supplied ice cream to the new restaurant from a very expensive source. We supplied nuts from a pushcart. Frank supplied nothing at all to them.

supply something/somebody with something	to provide something to someone or something	We will supply you with all the pencils you need. We supplied the committee with ice water.

sure of
sure of something

surge in (to something)	to burst or gush into something or some place	The water surged into the valley after the dam broke. The doors opened and the people surged in.

surge out (of something)	to burst forth or gush out of something or some place	The water surged out of the huge crack in the dam. We saw the crack where the water surged out.

surge up	to rush or gush upwards	A spring of fresh water surged up under the stone and flowed out on the ground. The oil surged up and blew out into the open air in a tall black column.

surpass something/somebody in something	to exceed someone or something in some deed or quality	I will never be able to surpass Jill in speed or agility. My car surpasses yours in almost every respect.

surprise somebody by something	to astonish someone by doing or being something	You surprised me by your forthrightness. No one was surprised by the way it happened.

surprise somebody with something	to astonish someone by presenting or showing something	I surprised her with a bouquet of roses. He surprised Roger with a new car.

surprised at
surprised at/about something/somebody

surrender something/somebody to something/somebody	to give up someone or something to someone or something	You must surrender your child to the nurse for the child's own good. She will give her right back. He surrendered his car to the bank.
surrender to something/somebody	to give in to someone or something; to yield to someone or something	The robber surrendered to the cops. I will never surrender to my baser passions.

surround something/somebody with something/somebody	to encircle or enclose someone or something with people, something, or things	We surrounded him with his friends as he lay in the hospital bed. We surrounded the tree with wire netting to protect it against rabbits. They surrounded the display of jewels with guards.

suspect of
suspect somebody of something

suspend somebody from something	to prevent someone from participating in something (Usually as a form of discipline)	The principal suspended the student from classes for a week. Ted was suspended from school for three days.
suspend something/somebody from something	to hang someone or something from something	The hangman suspended the thief from a gibbet as a warning to others. Jill suspended each decoration from a different branch.

suspend something by something	to hang something by something	The workers carefully positioned the stone that was suspended by a steel cable. Will suspended the decoration by a fine thread.

suss somebody out	to try to figure someone out	I can't seem to suss Tom out. What a strange guy. I don't have any luck sussing out people I don't know well.

sustain somebody in something	to stand by or support someone through some problem	She knew she could count on her friends to sustain her in times of trouble. We will sustain you in the difficult times the best we can.

swab something down	to wash or scrub something, such as the deck of a ship	The sailors were told to swab the deck down each day. Swab down the deck!

swab something out	to wash or wipe something out in order to make it clean	The doctor swabbed my ear out carefully. The doctor swabbed out my ear carefully.
swab something out of something	to wipe or mop something out of something	The doctor swabbed the wax out of my ear. I swabbed out the last of the mud on the floor.

swallow something down	to swallow something	Here, take this pill and swallow it down. Liz swallowed down the pill.

swallow something/somebody up	to eat or gobble up someone or something	The fairy-tale wolf threatened to swallow the pig up in one bite. The wolf swallowed up the meat in one bite.
swallow something/somebody up	to engulf or contain something	The vast garage seemed to swallow the cars up. The huge sweater swallowed up the tiny child.
swallow up somebody/something	to take in or absorb someone or something	The suburbs are swallowing up all the farmland and open space in the region. She walked down the street, and the crowd just swallowed her up.

swamp something/somebody with something	to cover or deluge someone or something with something	The flood swamped our property with river water. The many orders for their product swamped the small business with too much to do.

swap notes (on something/somebody)	to share information on someone or something	The two girls sat around swapping notes on guys they knew. The mechanics were swapping notes on rude customers they had dealt with in the last month.

swap something/somebody for (something/somebody else)	to trade someone or something for someone or something else	I will swap my shortstop for your second baseman. There are times when I would gladly swap you for a new car - ;even an old car!

swap something/somebody with somebody	to exchange a person or thing for someone else's person or thing	The representatives of the two countries swapped spies with each other. Can I swap jackets with you?
swap with somebody	to exchange someone or something with someone	I like yours better. I'll swap with you. If you don't want the sandwich you have, I will swap with you.

swarm (all) over something/somebody	to gather and move all about on someone or throughout something or some place	The ants swarmed all over our picnic table. The children swarmed over the furniture.

swarm around something/somebody	to gather or crowd around someone or something, in the manner of a swarm of bees	The little children swarmed around the lady with the candy. The bees swarmed around the flowers.

swarm in(to something)	[for a throng] to crowd into something or some place	People were swarming into the auditorium to hear the guitarist. They swarmed in and ran for the best seats.

swarm out of something	to move out of something in great numbers	The bees swarmed out of the hive. People swarmed out of the park at the end of the game.

swarm through something	to gather in a crowd and move through something or some place	The shoppers swarmed through the store, buying everything in sight. The locusts swarmed through the field, eating the entire harvest.

swarm with something/somebody	to be abundant or crowded with moving people or things	The playground was swarming with children, and I couldn't find my own. The picnic blanket swarmed with ants.

sway back and forth	to swing or bend from one direction to another	The pendulum swayed back and forth, counting off the seconds. Mary was swaying back and forth, keeping time to the music.

sway somebody to something	to convince someone to do something	I think I can sway her to join our side. We could not sway Ted to our position.

swear (up)on something/somebody	to take an oath on someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	He swore upon the Bible to tell the truth. I swear on the memory of my sainted mother that I am telling the truth.

swear at something/somebody	to curse someone or something	Please don't swear at the children. Scott swore at the police station as he drove by.

swear by something	to strongly believe in something	Though there's no scientific evidence for this method of finding water, some farmers swear by it. Some teachers swear by stickers as a teaching tool and use them to teach kids everything.
swear by something/somebody	to announce one's full faith and trust in someone or something	I would swear by Roger any time. He is a great guy, and he tells the truth. I swear by this computer. It has always served me well.
swear by something/somebody	to utter an oath on someone or something	I swear by Jupiter that I will be there on time. She swore by her sainted mother that she would never do it again. The sheriff swore by his badge that he would lock her up if she ever did it again.

swear like a trooper	to curse and swear with great facility (The trooper here refers to a soldier)	Mrs. Wilson was known to swear like a trooper on occasion. The clerk started swearing like a trooper, and the customer started crying.

swear off (something)	to pledge to avoid or abstain from something	I've sworn off desserts. I am on a diet. No dessert for me. I've sworn off.
swear off something	to decide to stop doing or using something	He says he has sworn off candy. She won $10,000 on the slots and was so shocked, she swore off gambling completely.

swear on !

swear somebody in	to get a formal promise from someone to be honest	A ceremony to swear in the new governor took place Wednesday. The witness took the stand after the court clerk swore her in.
swear somebody in	to swear a lot (Usage notes: A trooper is a soldier with a low rank)	He came in drunk and swearing like a trooper.
swear somebody in (as something)	to administer an oath to someone who then officially begins in office	The judge swore Alice in as street commissioner. The judge swore in Alice as the new director.

swear somebody to something	to cause someone to take an oath pledging something, such as silence or secrecy, about something	I swore Larry to secrecy, but he told anyway. We were sworn to silence about the new product.
swear something to somebody	to pledge or promise something to someone	I had to swear my allegiance to the general before I could become one of his bodyguards. We swore our loyalty to our country.

swear something out against somebody	to file a criminal complaint against someone	Walter swore a warrant out against Jeff. He swore out a warrant against Tony.
swear up and down	to say as strongly as possible	He swore up and down that he didn't know the guy at all.

sweat for something	to work very hard for something	I sweat for every dollar I bring in. Ted really sweats for his salary.

sweat out something	to anxiously wait for something	I sent in my application and now I have to sweat out the two months until I get an answer. We really had to sweat it out because it wasn't clear until the end that we would actually win.
sweat something out	to endure something unpleasant	It was an ordeal, but I sweated it out. I managed to sweat out the exam.
sweat something out	to endure suspense about something	She sweated the two-hour wait out until she heard the results of her bar exams. Karen sweated out the long wait peacefully.
sweat something out	to get rid of something in one's body by sweating	I have a bit of a cold, and I am going to try to sweat it out. I took a steamy shower, trying to sweat out my cold.
sweat something out of somebody	to apply enough heat to cause someone to sweat, with the goal of removing bodily poisons or the cause of a disease	They used the ancient treatment of sweating the disease out of me. It worked! They used steam to sweat out the flu.
sweat something out of somebody	to force someone to reveal information under pressure	The cops couldn't sweat the information out of Max. They couldn't sweat out the information.

sweat something off	to get rid of excess fat or weight by exercising or taking a steam bath to produce sweat	I think I can sweat a lot of this fat off. Tony tried to sweat off some of his excess weight.

sweep along	to glide along smoothly, as if flying	The sailboat swept along, pushed by the strong wind. The fallen leaves blew up against the fence, swept along by a strong wind.

sweep away something	to destroy something	The decision to close the lab meant that twenty years' work was swept away in a moment. Francis spent his last few years at home, until heart failure swept him away.
sweep away something	to get rid of something	You will have to sweep away all your anger in order to improve your relations with your family. There was almost no wind to sweep the smog away.
sweep something/somebody away	to dispose of someone or something by pushing or brushing away	The waves nearly swept us away. The waves caused by the storm swept away all the debris on the beach.

sweep down on something/somebody	to flow or rush down onto someone or something	The storm swept down on the campers. A flash flood swept down on the streambed.

sweep in (to some place)	to dash or run into some place	The kids swept into the candy store and bought little bits of things. They swept in and spent all of a dollar before they left.
sweep in(to some place)	to dash or run into some place	The kids swept into the candy store and bought little bits of things. They swept in and spent all of a dollar before they left.

sweep off	to exit quickly	He stopped only briefly, then swept off again. Mary swept off, leaving Ted standing there confused.
sweep something off (of) something	to remove something by sweeping (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The waiter swept the crumbs off the tablecloth. He swept off the crumbs.

sweep out of some place	to exit from some place quickly with style or grace	The famous actress swept out of the room in a grand fashion. She swept out of her dressing room and walked on stage just as her cue was uttered.
sweep something/somebody out of something	to remove or brush someone or something from something or some place	The voters swept the crooks out of office. We swept out the dirt.

sweep over somebody	to pass over and cover someone	The waves swept over us and nearly drowned us. The flood swept over the farmers who would not leave their homes.
sweep over somebody	[for something] to overwhelm someone	A wave of nausea swept over me and I guess I slumped to the floor. The need for fresh air swept over all of us trapped in that room.

sweep somebody into something	to place someone into an elective position decisively	The decisive victory swept all the candidates of the reform party into office. The victory swept in the candidates.
sweep something into something	to move something into something or some place by sweeping	Liz swept the crumbs into the dish. Liz held the dish and swept in the crumbs.

sweep something back	to push or move something backward in the shape of a curve	He took the brush and swept his hair back in a huge wave. She swept back her hair in a striking arrangement.

sweep something down	to clean something by sweeping	Please sweep this floor down whenever you make a mess here. Jeff will sweep down the floor before he goes home.

sweep something under !

sweep something up	to arrange something, such as hair, into a curve or wave	The hairstylist swept her hair up over the top. No one liked it. Sweep up my hair the way it looks in this picture.
sweep something up	to clean up and remove something, such as dirt, by sweeping	Please sweep these crumbs up. Can you sweep up these crumbs?
sweep something up	to clean up some place by sweeping	Please sweep this room up. Can you sweep up this room, please?
sweep up	to clean up by sweeping	Would you sweep up this time? Please give me a few minutes to sweep up before you come to visit.

sweep something/somebody aside	to push or brush someone or something aside	The guards swept the spectators aside as the king's coach approached. They swept aside the spectators.

sweep through	to move through something or some place quickly and with grand flourishes	She swept through the room, speaking to no one. She swept through in a great hurry.
sweep through	to perform some task quickly	She swept through the musical number and ran offstage. It required a slower tempo, but she just swept through.

sweeten (up) !
sweeten somebody up	to make someone more pleasant	I had hoped that a week in the Caribbean would sweeten him up. The trip sweetened him up, but not for long.
sweeten something up	to make something taste sweeter	Where is the sugar? I need to sweeten this up a little. A little sugar will sweeten up the coffee.

swell out	to bulge outward; to expand outward	The sides of the box swelled out because it was too full. The west wall of the garage swelled out just before the building collapsed.

swell up	to enlarge; to inflate; to bulge out	I bumped my ankle and it swelled up. I struck my thumb with a hammer and it swelled up something awful.

swell with something	to expand from a particular cause	My knee joints swelled with arthritis, His nose swelled after it was struck by the door.
swell with something	to seem to swell with a feeling such as pride	His chest swelled with pride at the thought of his good performance. Ted swelled with pride at the announcement.

swerve (away) (from something/somebody)	to turn sharply away from someone or something	The car swerved away from Carla just in time. It swerved away just in time.

swerve into something/somebody	to turn sharply and directly into someone or something (Usually an accident)	The car almost swerved into a pedestrian. The bus swerved into a truck.

swill something down	to drink something, especially an alcoholic drink, in great gulps	The guy took a quart of beer and swilled it down in a few seconds. He swilled down a quart of beer.

swim against !

swim around	to swim here and there	I just like to get into the pool and swim around. I saw only one fish swimming around in your aquarium.

swim before !

swim for	to escape by swimming (See also run for it)	I escaped from the guard, dived into the river, and swam for it. Max swam for it, but he didn't get away.
swim for something/somebody	to travel toward someone or something by swimming	I swam for George, who was farther out, holding onto a float. I am going to swim for the island.

swim in something	to experience an overabundance of something	We are just swimming in orders right now. Business is good. Mr. Wilson is swimming in money.
swim in something	to fail or succeed	Newcomers are given no training - they are simply left to sink or swim.
swim in something	to have too much of something	The company is swimming in cash and trying to figure out what to do with it. Every meal was swimming in grease.
swim in something	to swim in a body of water	Is it safe to swim in this water? Can we swim in your pool?

swim into something	to enter something swimming	They swam into a lovely grotto. Ted swam into the cove and got out on the beach.

swim toward something/somebody	to swim in the direction of someone or something	Jeff swam toward the drowning man and helped him. I swam toward the boat.

swindle somebody out of something	to cheat someone out of something	The crooks tried to swindle her out of her inheritance. The crooks swindled $3,000 out of the old woman.

swing around (to something)	to move one's body or view around to another position	She swung around to the left, where she could see better. The bear suddenly swung around and charged.

swing at somebody/something	to try to hit someone or something	They were arguing, and then I saw him swing at Howie. He took a swing at the window so he could get into the house, and then he remembered the key hidden under the doormat.
swing at something/somebody	to strike at someone or something	Max swung at the cop - ;a serious mistake. The batter swung at the ball and missed.

swing by (somewhere)	to visit a place briefly	I told Paul we'd swing by his office about five today. George said he planned to swing by later.

swing for something	[for someone] to die by hanging for committing a crime	The sheriff swore that Tex would swing for the killing. Max said he would not swing for something that Lefty had done.

swing from something	to hang or dangle from something	The child was swinging from an exercise baron her swing set. Ted was swinging from the edge of the cliff, waiting to be rescued.

swing into something	to enter something by swinging	The monkey swung into its cage, and I quickly locked the cage door. I grabbed a rope and swung into the cave, where my pursuer couldn't see me.

swing to something	to change to a different position or attitude	The mood of the country is swinging to conservatism. Soon the attitudes of the people will swing to the opposite side.

swing with something/somebody	to appreciate someone or something	Man, I can really swing with that color. Glorious! I can really swing with John. He and I are real close.

swirl about something/somebody	[for something, such as dust or a fluid] to circle and wind about someone or something	The snow swirled about me as I walked along. The smoke swirled about the tiny campfire.

swirl around	[for dust or a fluid] to circle around	The liquid swirled around in the flask as Toby shook it up. Dust swirled around the room in the sunlight.

swish around	[for a fluid] to slosh or rush around	All that water I drank is swishing around in my stomach. I can hear the water swishing around in the pipes.

swish something off (of) something/somebody	to brush something off someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The barber swished the loose hairs off of Paul's collar. The barber swished off the loose hairs.

switch (around) (with something/somebody)	to exchange or trade with someone or something (The optional elements cannot be transposed)	I liked Jill's lunch, and she liked mine, so I switched around with her. I liked Jill's, and she liked mine, so we switched around with each other.
switch around	to change, swing, or turn around	The horse switched around and ran the other way. I switched around and sat looking the other way for a while.
switch something/somebody around	to change, swing, or turn someone or something	I was prepared for a late flight out of Miami, but they switched me around at the last minute. They switched around my flights.

switch back	to return to using or doing something	I decided to switch back to my old shampoo. I switched back and was glad I did.
switch back	[for a road] to reverse upon itself	The mountain road switched back twenty times in three miles. It switched back every now and then.
switch something back (to something)	to return something to the way it was	I switched the television back to the previous channel. I switched back the channel to what I was watching before.

switch from somebody (to somebody else)	to change one's choice from one person to another	I had chosen Jeff, but I will switch from him to Judy. Tom wanted to try a new barber, so he switched from Nick to Bruno.
switch from something (to something else)	to change one's choice from one thing to another	We switched from oil to gas heat in our house. I don't like to switch from one brand to another.

switch into something	to change [one's clothes] into something else	Let me switch into something a little more dressy if we are going to a nice restaurant. I have to switch into something more comfortable.

switch off	[for someone] to stop paying attention; to become oblivious to everything	I got tired of listening and switched off. You could see that the audience was switching off.
switch off	[for something] to turn itself off	I forgot to switch the TV off before I went to bed. At midnight, all the lights switched off automatically. The television switched off after I went to sleep.
switch something off	stop the energy flow, turn off	The light's too bright. Could you switch it off.
switch something/somebody off	to cause someone or something to be quiet or stop doing something	I got tired of listening to her, so I punched the button and switched her off. I switched off the television set.

switch on	[for someone] to become alert or excited	The wild music made all the kids switch on and start to dance. About midnight, Ed switches on and becomes a real devil.
switch on	[for something] to turn itself on	Can someone switch the light on, please? Exactly at midnight, the lights switched on. The radio switched on early in the morning to wake us up.
switch something on	start the energy flow, turn on	We heard the news as soon as we switched on the car radio.
switch something on	to close an electrical circuit that causes something to start functioning or operating	Please switch the fan on. I switched on the fan.

switch over (to something/somebody)	to change to or choose someone or something else	That newscaster is too contentious. Switch over to another station. Okay, I'll switch over.
switch something over (to something)	to convert something to something else	We are switching our furnace over to gas. We switched over our furnace to gas.
switch something/somebody over to something	to reassign, change, or convert someone or something to something	They switched me over to a later flight. I want to switch my furnace over to gas.
switch something/somebody over to something/somebody	to transfer electronically a signal from someone or something to someone or something else	Tom is on the line. Shall I switch him over to Jeff? Please switch the call over to my other line.

switch something (from something) (in)to something	to change something from one thing into another	The magician switched the silk scarf from red into green. I would love to be able to switch lead into gold.
switch something to (something else)	to change something to something else	It was hot so I switched the thermostat from heating to cooling. Mary switched the controls to automatic so she wouldn't have to worry about them constantly.
switch to something	to change to something	I am going to switch to a cheaper brand of tissues. We switched to a different long-distance telephone company to save some money.

switch something out	to remove something from an electrical circuit to turn it off	Please switch the light out. I switched out the light.

switch something/somebody through	to connect someone or something with something else	I will switch you through the priority network. The operator switched the call through.

swoon over something/somebody	to seem to faint or pass out about someone or something	The kids swooned over the rock star like the kids of thirty years ago. Evangeline swooned over the frightful news.


tack on	to ad something that wasn't planned	They TACKED ON a new ending to the film when they found that test audiences didn't like the original.
tack on	to add (usually used in a negative way)	The lawyer tried to tack on an additional $100 in fees.
tack on something	to add something that is extra or does not belong	When we got the bill there was an extra 18% tacked on as a service charge. You should ask that question at the meeting and not tack it on to an e-mail.

tack onto	to add or attach something that wasn't planned to something	I TACKED a quick message ONTO the end of the letter after I'd printed it.
tack something onto something	to add something onto something	The waiter kept tacking charges onto my bill. He tacked on charge after charge.

tack something down	to fasten something down with small nails	Someone had better tack this carpet down. Please tack down this carpet.

tag along	to accompany someone, especially if they haven't specifically invited you	Do you mind if I tag along? = Do you mind if I come with you? You're off to the cinema; can we TAG ALONG?
tag along (with somebody/something)	to follow along after someone; to go along with someone	The family dog tagged along after the children wherever they went. Can I tag along? Do you mind if I tag along behind you?
tag along (with somebody/something)	to follow or go with a person or group when you were not invited	Do you mind if I tag along? I'd like to see the show at the museum too. We don't want any kids to tag along with us today.

tag on (onto)	to add an additional point to something written or spoken	He TAGGED ON a few comments after reading my report. He TAGGED his ideas ONTO the end of my report.

tag somebody out	[in baseball] to touch with the ball, and thereby put someone out	The shortstop tagged the runner out and retired the side. He tagged out the runner.

tag with	to add a keyword link or bookmark to a blog entry or webpage	The post was TAGGED WITH keywords.

tail away	to become silent or inaudible	His voice TAILED AWAY when he was speaking about what he'd done wrong.

tail back	to form a traffic jam	The traffic TAILED BACK for several miles after the accident.

tail off	to become silent or inaudible	The voices TAILED OFF when she entered.
tail off	to decrease (in intensity, effectiveness, etc.)	Profits TAILED OFF sharply in the last quarter of the year as a result of the increase in the price of oil. The protests tailed off as the night wore on.

tailor-made for somebody/something	particularly suited to someone or something	Business schools are offering courses tailor-made for a firm's executives. The contest was tailor-made for Alexander, who was not well known and had little funding.
tailor-made for somebody/something	specially made for a particular purpose (often + for)	Business schools are offering courses tailor-made for a firm's executives.

taint something with something	to spoil or debase something with something	The flood tainted the drinking water with disease germs. The food had been tainted with germs.

take (somebody) by !

take (something) out on	To abuse or yell at someone because one is angry, even though that someone is not the cause of the anger	Why do you always take your anger out on me?

take (something) upon oneself	To take/assume responsibility for something	I'm going to take it upon myself to make sure he improves his English.

take at somebody !
take at something/somebody !

take of something/somebody !
take advantage (of somebody)	to make an advantage for oneself out of something (which might otherwise be a disadvantage)	Sally found a way to turn the problem to her advantage. The ice cream store manager was able to turn the hot weather to her advantage.
take advantage (of somebody)	to use someone's weakness to improve your own situation	Mr Smith often takes advantage of my friendship and leaves the unpleasant tasks for me to do.
take advantage (of something)	to use an opportunity to get or achieve something	He took advantage of the prison's education program to earn a college degree. There are peaches and strawberries grown on the farm, and I sure take full advantage of them. Usage notes: often said of someone who has opportunities that others do not have: The rich can take advantage of clever accounting tricks to avoid taxes.
take advantage of	Let's go to the store right now. IВ want to take advantage ofВ the sale. He's not a very good person. HeВ will take advantage ofhis friends to make money.
take advantage of
take advantage of (somebody/something/ situation)
take advantage of somebody	to deceive someone	I knew that you wouldn't take advantage of me! I trusted you. Please don't take advantage of me the way you took advantage of Carl.
take advantage of somebody	to impose on someone	I am glad to have your help. I hope I am not taking advantage of you. I am glad to do it. You are not taking advantage of me.
take advantage of something/somebody	to utilize someone or something to the fullest extent	Try to take advantage of every opportunity that comes your way. Please take advantage of the consultant while she is here in the office.
take advantage of something/somebody
take care of
take care of	to look after	I'll take care of your plants while you're away. I took care of making reservations.
take care of	to assume responsibility for doing	Who's going to tell him? I'll take care of it.
take care of	to provide care for	John took good care of his car and ended up selling it for a lot of money.
take care of (something/somebody)

take to somebody/something !

take off !

take down !

take aback	to surprise (almost always used in the form - "to be taken aback")	I was taken aback by his reaction.

take against something/somebody !

take on something/somebody !

take after	to follow sb as an example; resemble in appearance
take after	to look like, resemble	He TAKES AFTER his mother.
take after	to resemble in appearance or character; to resemble (a person)	Jamie really takes after his dad. She really takes after her father.
take after somebody	to resemble a family member	I take after my mother. We are both impatient.

take at something/somebody !

take in something/somebody !

take apart	to take something to pieces	She TOOK the photocopier APART to see what had got stuck in it.
take apart	to disassemble	She took the computer apart, but couldn't reassemble it afterwards. Don't take my TV apart.
take something apart	purposely break into pieces	He took the car brakes apart and found the problem.

take aside	to get someone alone to talk to them	The teacher TOOK her ASIDE and said that she'd failed the exam.

take away	to remove	The police TOOK the protestors AWAY. The police took her daughter away.

take back	to make someone nostalgic	That song always TAKES me BACK to when I was at university.
take back	to retract a statement, admit that something was wrong	I had to TAKE BACK everything bad I'd said about them when I learned how they'd helped out.
take something back	return an item	I have to take our new TV back because it doesn't work.

take down	to make notes or write down in full	The police TOOK DOWN his answers to their questions.
take down	to remove	People TAKE DOWN their Christmas decorations twelve days after Christmas.
take down	to write (down)	Take this down.
take somebody down !

take (of something/somebody) !

take in	to absorb information	The lecture was rather boring and I didn't TAKE IN much of what the lecturer said.
take in	to deceive	She TOOK me IN with her story until someone told me the truth.
take in	to make clothes smaller	The jacket was far too big around the shoulders, so I had it TAKEN IN so that I could wear it.
take in	to process, remember (when someone is teaching you something)	All this information is just too much to take in at one time.
take in	to shelter	They took in two stray cats.
take in	to understand (meaning); deceive

take with somebody !

take it out on	abuse someone because you're angry	Whenever things go wrong, he always shouts and TAKES IT OUT ON me, even if I had nothing to do with the problem.

take it upon yourself	take responsibility, often without consulting other people	I TOOK IT UPON MYSELF to make sure he got up on time.

take off	leave the ground	The plane took off at 7 o'clock.
take off	to make great progress	The software house really TOOK OFF when they produced the latest version of their DTP package.
take off	to reduce the price of an item	They've TAKEN ten percent OFF designer frames for glasses.
take off	to start to fly; to undress; begin flight (plane)	My plane takes off in five minutes.
take off	to leave the ground (plane or rocket)	When the plane took off I felt very nervous. When does your plane take off? Sorry, I have to take off now. Take your coat off, please.
take off	to leave; to split	I think I'm going to take off - I'm really tired.
take off	to remove	Please take off your hat when you're indoors.
take off	when a plane departs or leaves the ground	The flight for Dublin TOOK OFF on time.
take off something; take something off
take something off	to remove something (usually clothing); to remove from a place or thing	Can you take the garbage out to the street for me? Take off your socks and shoes and come in the lake!

take on	to allow passengers on a ship or plane	The plane stopped at Zurich to TAKE ON some passengers.
take on	to assume a responsibility	She TOOK ON the task of indexing the book.
take on	to employ; to hire or engage staff	The council has had to TAKE ON twenty extra employees to handle their increased workload. Business is good so the company is taking on extra staff.
take on	to assume; to accept	I took on another project.

take out	to borrow a library book; to borrow a book, cd, etc. from the library	I TOOK OUT all the books I needed for my essay from the library. Tom took out three books and two DVDs from the library.
take out	to borrow money from a bank or other official lender	Jackie and Anil TOOK OUT a mortgage to buy a bigger flat.
take out	to extract or remove	The dentist TOOK OUT all of my wisdom teeth before they started causing any problems.
take out	to go out socially with someone, especially a date	He TOOK her OUT to a restaurant last Friday night.
take out	to kill, murder	The gang TOOK him OUT after he spoke to the police.
take out	to obtain insurance	I TOOK OUT some health insurance before I went backpacking around Latin America.
take out	to remove/extract	She took out a pen to note the address.
take out	to arrange to have someone killed	The mafia took him out.
take out	to get, obtain. (money from an ATM, insurance, etc.)	Tom took out $100 dollars from the ATM. We took out a life insurance policy.
take out	to invite someone to go out to a cafe, restaurant, etc.	I took my mom out to diner on her birthday.
take out something/somebody; take something/somebody out
take somebody out	pay for someone to go somewhere with you	My grandparents took us out for dinner and a movie.

take over	to assume control of a company or organization	The bank was TAKEN OVER by a Hong Kong bank that needed to buy a bank to get into the British market.
take over	to take control over	After Jim retired, Nancy took over the family business. If you take over, you will be in charge.
take over something; take something over

take somebody for !
take something for !

take somebody under !

take somebody/something by !

take to	to make a habit of something; to develop a habit	He's TAKEN TO wearing a baseball cap since his hair started thinning more noticeably.

take up	to continue, proceed; become interested in
take up	to fill or occupy time or space	An awful lot of my time at work is TAKEN UP with pointless bureaucracy nowadays.
take up	to make clothes shorter	The trousers were too long so I TOOK them UP to make them fit.
take up	to start a new hobby, pastime, etc.	He TOOK UP squash as he felt he had to lose some weight. He took up bowling.
take up something; take something up

talk (somebody) into (something)	to convince/persuade someone (by talking to them) to do something	He talked me into buying a Mazda.
talk into	to persuade someone to do something	She didn't want to let me go, but I finally managed to TALK her INTO it.
talk some sense into somebody	to help someone think about something in a reasonable way My best friend talked some sense into me, and I was able to smooth things over with my mom.

talk (somebody) out of (something)	to convince/persuade someone (by talking to them) NOT to do something	I was going to buy a Mazda, but my cousin talked me out of it.
talk out	Let's just talk this matter out.
talk out of	to persuade someone not to do something	He was going to drive home after drinking half a bottle of wine, but his friends TALKED him OUT OF it.

talk (somebody) through (something)	to guide someone through something (usually a process, instructions, etc.)	I started to unerstand the process after Bill talked me through it.

talk (something) over	to discuss	It's a good deal, but I have to talk it over with my husband.
talk over	to discuss	We TALKED OVER the problems in our relationship, but couldn't sort things out. We talked over the possible answers. We talked over buying a new home.

talk about	He talks about getting married. Let's talk about your problem.

talk back	to respond rudely to a person in authority	The teacher was cross because the pupil TALKED BACK to her.
talk back	to respond in a rude, or agressive way	Don't talk back to your father like that!
talk back (to)	Don't ever talk back to her.

talk down	to try to make something sound less important	The company CEO TALKED DOWN the recent fall in shares.
talk down to	to talk in a way to show your superiority not communicate	She's a dreadful teacher and TALKS DOWN TO her students instead of teaching them.
talk down to	to talk to someone in a condescending way, like they were less intelligent than you	He always talks down to his little brother.

talk in !

talk through	to guide someone through an issue	The teacher TALKED me THROUGH the test so I knew what to expect.

talk to	I talked to my teacher about my test grade.
talk to/with (somebody) about (topic)
talk to/with somebody about something/somebody

talk up	to make something appear more important or significant than it really is	The government is trying to TALK UP the effect of their policies.

talk with	Mary talked with Michael about this temper.

tally something up	to add something up	Please tally everything up and tell me the total. Let's tally up everything and ask for donations.

tally with something	[for one set of figures] to match another set of figures	Your figures don't tally with mine. Let's add them up again. The total Sam got didn't tally with what the tax agent had come up with.
tally with something	[for one thing] to agree or correlate with another	What you just said doesn't tally with what you told me before. His story doesn't tally with what I already know.

tamp something down	to pat or pack something down	Tamp the soil down over the seeds after you plant them. Please tamp down the soil firmly.

tamper with something/somebody	to fiddle with someone or something; to meddle with someone or something	I've got him believing just what I want him to believe. Don't tamper with him. Please don't tamper with the thermostat.

tangle something/somebody up	to entangle someone or something	Please don't tangle me up in your ropes. I tangled up my feet in the cords on the floor.

tangle with somebody/something	to battle against someone or something about someone or something	Tim tangled with Karen over the children. I hope I don't have to tangle with the bank over this loan. I don't want to tangle with city hall.
tangle with somebody/something	to disagree or fight with someone or something She's not afraid to tangle with her father	The two computer giants had tangled with each other in court several times.

tank up (something)	if a person or a vehicle is built like a tank, they are very strong and very big These cars are built like tanks	I should imagine he's pretty strong - he's built like a tank.
tank up (something)	to fill the fuel container of a vehicle with gas or other fuel There won't be any gas stations for miles and miles, so we'd better tank up now	It's always a good idea to tank up a rented car before you return it.
tank up on something	to drink a great deal of something Be sure to tank up on water before you work outdoors on a hot day! We tanked up on gin and tonics and then had a long nap.

tap at something	to make one or more light blows on something	Fred tapped at the door, but no one heard him. Who is tapping at my window?

tap for	to get money off someone	I TAPPED him FOR a loan.
tap somebody (for something)	to select someone for some purpose or position	The committee tapped John to run for Congress. I had thought they were going to tap Sally.

tap into	to use or exploit a plentiful resource for your benefit	The company is hoping to TAP INTO the Chinese market.
tap something into something	to move something in with light blows	The mechanic tapped the bracket into place. The worker tapped in the bracket.

tap off with	to have sex	He TAPPED OFF WITH someone at the party on Saturday.

tap on something	to make one or more light blows on something	Who is that tapping on my windowpane? I wish you would stop tapping on the tabletop.
tap something/somebody on something	to make one or more light blows on some part of someone or something	Someone tapped me on the shoulder, and I turned around to see who it was. I tapped the drum on the top to find its pitch.

tap out	to play a rhythm quietly	He TAPPED OUT the tune with his pencil while he was thinking.
tap out	to die; to expire	My dog tapped out after being hit by a car. Mary was so tired that she thought she was going to tap out.
tap out	to lose one's money in gambling or in the securities markets	I'm gonna tap out in about three more rolls - ;just watch. I really tapped out on that gold-mining stock.
tap something out	to clean something, as the ashes out of a pipe, by tapping	He took the pipe out of his mouth and tapped the ashes out. He tapped out the soil from the flower pot.
tap something out	to send a message in Morse code, as on a telegraph	The telegraph operator tapped a message out and waited for a reply. The operator tapped out a message.
tap something out	to thump the rhythm of a piece of music [on something]	Tap the rhythm out until you get it right. Let's tap out the rhythm together.

tap something down	to pound something down with light blows	Please tap that nail down so no one gets hurt on it. Tap down the tack, if you would.

tap something with something	to make light blows on something with something	Alice tapped the table with her keys in an annoying fashion. Just tap the nail lightly with your hammer.

tap up	approach a footballer illegally to get them to change teams	Chelsea was accused of TAPPING him UP even though he was under contract.

taper off	gradually to stop doing something; to do less and less of something until there is no more to do	Bob tried to taper off smoking again. I can't taper off overeating. I have to stop all at once by going on a strict diet.
taper off	to gradually lessen tail off The price of gasoline should taper off in the fall	The rain will taper off by morning and the afternoon should be sunny.

taste like something	to have the same taste as something	This stuff tastes like watermelon. What do you think this tastes like?

taste of something	an experience; an example	Bill gave Sue a taste of her own rudeness. My friend used a parachute and got a taste of what it's like to be a bird.
taste of something	to have a taste similar to something; to have the hint of a certain flavor	This ice cream tastes of apricots. Why does this wine taste of vinegar?
taste of something	to take a taste of something (Typically southern)	Here, taste of this pie. Can I taste of your apple?

taunt somebody about something	to mock, tease, or torment someone about something	Stop taunting me about something that happened years ago! Terry was being taunted about his gaudy tie, so he took it off.

taunt somebody into something	to mock, tease, or torment someone into doing something	The gang taunted Liz into taking unnecessary chances. Don was taunted into leaving the room.

taunt somebody with something	to tease or tantalize someone with something	Jerry taunted Fran with the plate of fudge. Please don't taunt me with food I shouldn't eat.

tax something/somebody with something	to burden or tire someone or something with something	Please don't tax me with any more requests for my immediate attention. You are continuing to tax this committee with your constant complaints.

team up (with somebody/something)	to join with another person or group to achieve something The two companies teamed up to provide a new electronic news service	Feer first teamed up with Laff in high school to do cartoons for the school newspaper.
team up (with somebody/something)	to join with someone	I don't want to team up with him. I teamed up with Jane to write the report. I had never teamed up with anyone else before. I had always worked alone.

tear apart	to disturb or upset greatly	People were TORN APART when news of the train crash came through.

tear at	to pull or try to pull something to pieces	The fighters TORE AT each other.

tear away	to remove a surface violently	The roof was TORN AWAY in the hurricane.
tear away	to stop someone doing something unwillingly	I had to TEAR him AWAY from the office for dinner.

tear down	to demolish	The estate was TORN DOWN so that they could develop the land into luxury flats.
tear down something; tear something down

tear into	to criticize strongly or angrily; to criticize severely	She TORE INTO me for losing it. Barack Obama really tore into John McCain during their debate.

tear off	to leave at high speed	The police TORE OFF in their car after arresting her.
tear off	to remove part of a form or letter using your hands, not scissors	She TORE the slip OFF the bottom of the form and sent it with her cheque.
tear off	to remove with force	The storm TORE the roof OFF.
tear off (of)	She tore the label off the bottle.

tear something up	to rip into pieces	I tore up my ex-boyfriend's letters and gave them back to him.
tear up	to destroy	They are TEARING UP the old part of town to build a new shopping centre.
tear up	to rip into pieces	He TORE the fax UP and threw the bits of paper in the bin.
tear up	to tear (a piece of paper, etc.) into pieces	The student tore up his report card when he saw his grades.
tear up something; tear something up

tear something/somebody to !

tease out something	to carefully separate particular facts from a great deal of information What has always been interesting for me is how you can tease out the reasons for an event as you review its history	After a while, you learn how to tease out the errors hidden in texts.
tease out something	to lure something out of something by teasing or tempting	I managed to tease the cat out of the tree with a bit offish. I teased out the cat.
tease something out	to separate threads or hairs by combing	The hairdresser teased Jill's hair out carefully. The hairdresser teased out Jill's hair.

tease somebody about something/somebody	to make fun of someone about someone or something; to poke fun at someone about someone or something	The boys teased Don about his girlfriend. Stop teasing me about it!

tease somebody into doing something	to force someone to do something through teasing or tormenting	Sam teased her into doing what he wanted. Perhaps you can tease him into leaving, but he won't go if you ask him.

tee off	to annoy someone	It TEES me OFF when they turn up late.
tee off	to place a golf ball on a short plastic or wooden stick before hitting it at the start of a hole	He TEED OFF at the first hole.
tee off	to start or launch an event	The new project will TEE OFF next month.
tee off	to begin [doing anything]; to be the first one to start something	The master of ceremonies teed off with a few jokes and then introduced the first act. Everyone is seated and ready to begin. Why don't you tee off?
tee off	to start the first hole in a game of golf	It's time to tee off. Let's get on the course. What time do we tee off?
tee off on	to criticize	She TEED OFF ON me about the work I gave her.
tee somebody off	to make someone angry (See also teed off)	That really teed me off! Well, you sure managed to tee off everybody!

tee up	to make preparations before starting or launching something	They are TEEING UP for the conference tomorrow.
tee up	too place a golf ball on a short plastic or wooden stick before hitting it at the start of a hole	She TEED UP two strokes ahead at the last hole.

teem with something/somebody	to swarm with someone or something; to be abundant with someone or something	The porch was teeming with flies, so we couldn't eat there. The beach teemed with people enjoying the sunny weather.

telephone something in (to somebody)	to call someone on the telephone, usually to give particular information (The person called is in a special location, such as one's workplace or headquarters)	I will telephone my report in to my secretary. I telephoned in my report. I will telephone it in tomorrow.

telescope into something	[for one cylindrical part of something] to fit down inside another part, thereby reducing the length of the whole	This part telescopes into this part. The tent poles telescoped into a small, compact unit.

tell apart	to see a difference between two things	They're identical twins so I cannot TELL them APART.

tell off	to chide; talk angrily to someone about something they've done wrong	His fiancГ©e TOLD him OFF for arriving nearly an hour late.
tell off	to reprimand/criticize severely	The teacher told her off for not doing her homework.
tell off	to criticize (sometimes severely)	I told the babysitter off for not taking good care of my son. I should have told him off.

tell on	I'm going to call your father and tell on you.
tell on	to report someone to an authority	The pupil TOLD ON the others for cheating and the teacher failed them.
tell on	to report bad behavior	Every time I did something wrong when I was a child, my brother would tell on me.

tell somebody about something
tell somebody about something/somebody

tempt somebody into something	to lure or seduce someone into something	Could I tempt you into going swimming? She would not be tempted into eating the rich and fattening cake.

tempt somebody to do something	to entice someone to do something	You can't tempt me to eat any of that cake! I wasn't even tempted to go into town with the others.

tend to do something	to have a tendency to do something	Jill tends to play with her hair while she works. Sam tends to say things like that when he is upset.

tend toward something	to have a tendency to display a certain characteristic	Roger tends toward the dramatic. We all tend toward bad humor during bad weather.

tender age of	the young age of	She left home at the tender age of 17 and got married to a rock singer.

tender something (to somebody) (for something)	to offer or present something to someone for something	Laura tendered payment to Gary for the tickets. Walter tendered the old shares to the company for new shares.

tender something for something	to offer something (of value) for something	The shareholders were asked to tender one of their shares for two of the offering company's. I decided not to tender my shares.

tense up (for something)	to become tense, anxious, and ready for something	Liz tensed up for the game and was very nervous. He tensed up and that made it hard to give him the injection he needed.

terrify somebody into something	to threaten or frighten someone into doing something	The salesman is just trying to terrify you into buying a new car by saying the one you have is dangerous. They tried to terrorize people into staying off the streets.

terrify somebody or an animal out of something	to cause someone or an animal to lose something through fear	They tried to terrify the old lady out of her money, but she refused to tell where it was. The eagle terrified the hawk out of the food it was holding.
terrify somebody or an animal out of something	to terrify someone or an animal to leave something or some place	The attackers terrified the farmers out of their homes. The snake terrified the gophers out of their burrow.

test for something	to try to find out about something by testing	We are testing for weak places in your roof. That's the noise you hear up there. They are testing for some sort of infection.
test something/somebody for something	to apply a test to someone or something to try to determine something or identify something	They tested me for all sorts of diseases. Ken tested the roof for weak spots.

test somebody in something	to test someone in a particular subject	The committee decided to test her in her knowledge of the laws of the state. We were all tested in math and English.

test something out	to try something out; to test something to see if it works	I can't wait to test my new laptop out. I will test out the new brakes on the car.

testify against something/somebody	to be a witness against someone or something	Who will testify against him in court? I cannot testify against the company I work for.

testify for somebody	to present evidence in favor of someone; to testify on someone's behalf	I agreed to testify for her at the trial. Max testified for Lefty, but they were both convicted.

testify to something	to swear to something	I will testify to your whereabouts if you wish. I think I know what happened, but I would not testify to it.

thank (somebody) for ([doing] something)
thank somebody for something	to show or state one's gratitude to someone for something	Michael thanked Mary for her advice. We would all like to thank you for coming tonight. Thank you for inviting me.

thaw out	to warm up from being frozen	How long will it take for the chicken to thaw out? I can't wait for the cake to thaw out. I want some now!
thaw something/somebody out	to raise the temperature of someone or something above freezing; to warm someone up	We need to get inside so I can thaw my brother out. His toes are almost frozen. Did you thaw out the chicken?

think (something) over	To consider or reconsider (something)	Think it over. Maybe you'll decide to join us.

think about	The students thought about their answers to the math problem. We are thinking about joining them. They considered all the possible answers.
think about/of something/somebody

think back	to remember (often + to, sometimes + on)	When I think back on my youth, I wish I had studied harder.
think back (to)	Try and think back to the morning of June 5.

think inside the box	to think in traditional fashion, bound by old, nonfunctional, or limiting structures, rules, or practices (As if thinking or creativity were confined or limited by a figurative box; Compare this with think outside the box)	You won't come up with good ideas if you think only inside the box. You guys only think inside the box and will never find a better solution.

think of	They thought of several new ways to do the problem. We thought of a new way to fix that. We thought of a new way to fix that. They developed several new methods.
think of/about

think outside !

think (something) over	to consider	I'll have to think over the proposal before I decide. I'll have to think this job offer over before I make my final decision. He is thinking over moving away.
think over	to consider something carefully	I needed a few minutes to think it over. I've THOUGHT it OVER and have made up my mind; I'm going to take the job in Leeds.
think over something; think something over

think through	to consider all the possibilities and outcomes of a situation	First, let me think this through and I'll call you tomorrow first in the morning. The plan fell through because they hadn't THOUGHT it THROUGH properly.

think up	to create or invent something, especially when lying; to create or invent (a story, plan, etc.) Often used to mean that someone is lying about something	I'll think something up. I'd better THINK UP a good reason for handing the work in late. He thought up some story.

thirst for something	to desire something to drink (Somewhat formal)	"I thirst for something cooling and refreshing."" said the preacher. You could see that everyone there was thirsting for water, or even coffee, but there was no refreshment in sight.
thirst for something	to have a strong desire for something (See also have a thirst for something)	In the old days, students were said to thirst for knowledge. The generals thirsted for new battles to be fought."

thrash out something	to move about restlessly or violently	Settle down and stop thrashing around. Timmy thrashed around all night when he had the high fever.
thrash out something	to reach an agreement after a long or difficult discussion The meeting lasted all night, but by morning, the two sides had thrashed out their differences and agreed on a new contract	They're close to making a deal, and we just hope they can thrash it out without going to trial.
thrash something out	to discuss something thoroughly and solve any problems	The committee took hours to thrash the whole matter out. John and Anne thrashed out the reasons for their constant disagreements.
thrash something out of somebody	to beat something out of someone	The sheriff really wanted to thrash the truth out of Tex, but that is illegal. Max wanted to know where the money was hidden and he tried to thrash it out of Lefty.

thread through something !

threaten somebody with something/somebody	to warn someone that there will be punishment in the form of someone or something if conditions are not met	No, no! Your Uncle Herman is not coming here! Please don't threaten me with Uncle Herman! Are you threatening me with bodily harm?

thrill at something/somebody	to become excited by someone or something	The opera was mystically intoxicating, and the audience thrilled at the tenor lead. We thrilled at the agility of the dancers.

thrill somebody to !
thrill to something	to become excited by something; to experience great joy while experiencing something	I always thrill to the sound of a marching band. The crowd thrilled to the sight of the winning team parading down Main Street.

thrill somebody with something	to create or use something to cause someone much joy	The famous singer thrilled us with a lovely song. Sally was thrilled with the praise heaped upon her daughter.

thrive (up)on something	to grow vigorously because of something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	These plants thrive upon wet soil. Children thrive on love.

throng around something/somebody	to crowd around someone or something	The children thronged around the lady with the bags of candy. Everyone thronged around the piano for the group sing.

throng in(to something)	[for a crowd] to swarm into some place	The eager crowd thronged into the department store to partake in the advertised sale. The doors opened and they thronged in.

throng out (of something)	[for a crowd] to swarm out of something or some place	The people thronged out of the concert hall at the end of the program. At half past ten, the crowd thronged out.

throw (somebody) off	to make someone lose their concentration/ to mislead someone	I know you're doing that just to throw me off, but it's not going to work.

throw into something	to cause something to fail We keep trying to get together, but her crazy schedule keeps throwing a monkey wrench into our plans.
throw wrench into something !

throw away	to discard something when no longer needed	I THREW the alarm clock AWAY because it had stopped working. They cleaned their apartment and threw away two sacks of old newspapers.
throw away/ throw out	to put something in the garbage. To discard	Maria, stop playing with that paper - throw it out!
throw away/out something; throw something away/out
throw something away	to dispose of	We threw our old furniture away when we won the lottery.

throw to !

throw in !

throw around !

throw at somebody !

throw out	to get rid of	I THREW OUT all my old clothes to make some space in my wardrobe.

throw together !

throw somebody for !

throw somebody off !

throw somebody together	to bring people together in a manner that is not planned The refugees were thrown together in large camps	We'd throw together people from different parts of our lives and have a great big party.
throw something together	to create something quickly without preparation We came home late and I just threw something together for us to eat	It was one of those low-cost movies that studios often throw together.

throw something into !

throw up	to vomit	The prawns she ate at lunch made her THROW UP and she had to go home early. I was so nauseous I almost threw up. If you drink too much alcohol, you might throw up.

thrust out	to stick out; to stab outward; to protrude outward	A deck thrust out from the back of the house, offering a lovely view of the stream far below. As he grew angrier, his chin thrust out farther and farther.

thrust something at something/somebody	to stab at someone or something with something	The goat thrust its head at the dog. Ann thrust the pencil at the balloon and popped it.

thrust something down	to jab something downward	Max thrust the knife down and speared a piece of chicken. He thrust down the fork like a spear.
thrust something down something	to jab or stab something down into something	The keeper quickly thrust the medicine down the lion's throat. The chimney sweep thrust his brush down the chimney.

thrust something forward	to jab something forward	She thrust her jaw forward and walked into the room. Roger thrust his hand forward just in time to stop the child from crossing the street.

thrust something into something/somebody	to stab or run something into someone or something	The knight thrust his lance into the villain. He thrust in his knife.

thrust something/somebody against something/somebody	to drive or shove someone or something against someone or something	The force of the crash thrust Liz against Tiffany. The crash thrust Liz against the car door.

thrust something/somebody aside	to push someone or something out of the way or to one side	Walter thrust Fred aside and dashed by him into the room. He thrust aside Fred and came into the room.

thrust something/somebody away from something/somebody	to push or throw someone or something away from someone or something	The guards thrust the spectators away from the path the rock star was taking. They thrust away the spectators from the star.

thrust something/somebody back	to push someone or something backward and away	Tom moved forward, but the guard thrust him back. He thrust back the door, which had closed on his foot.

thrust something/somebody through something	to drive or push someone or something through something	I thrust Larry through the open door and followed along quickly. Ann thrust the wad of papers through the opening.
thrust through something	to drive or push through something forcefully	The front end of the car thrust through the side of the house. The stock clerk's knife thrust through the box, ruining the packages of noodles inside.

thud against something/somebody	to thump against someone or something, making a dull noise on impact	The pumpkin thudded against Jerry, breaking open and messing up his clothes. The ball thudded against the wall and bounced back.

thud into something/somebody	to bump into someone or something, making a dull noise on impact	The door blew open and thudded into Marie, giving her a bump on the knee. The ball thudded into the side of the house.

thumb at something/somebody !

thumb through something	to look through a book, magazine, or newspaper, without reading it carefully	I've only thumbed through this book, but it looks very interesting. I leafed through a magazine while waiting to see the doctor.
thumb through something	to quickly look at a pile of papers or the pages of a magazine or book Quinn thumbed through his messages until he found the slip with Ritter's phone number on it	Bella had to wait for Jill so she passed the time thumbing through magazines.

thump on something/somebody	to pound on someone or something	Tim was angry with Roger and thumped on him a little, but decided to forgive him. Andy thumped on the bass drum for an hour.

thump something down	to throw something down so it makes a pounding noise	Nancy thumped the parcel down and caught her breath. She thumped down the parcel.

thump something out (on the piano)	to pound out music on a piano	Joel thumped a happy tune out on the piano. He thumped out a well-known tune.

thunder across something	to move across something, making a rumbling sound	The jets thundered across the sky, heading for their home base. As the race car thundered across the track, people strained to get a better view.

thunder something out	to respond with words spoken in a voice like thunder	He thundered the words out so everyone could hear them. He thundered out the words.

tick away	to pass (of time)	The last few seconds TICKED AWAY and the team couldn't come back.
tick away	[for seconds or minutes] to go by as the clock ticks	The seconds ticked away as the fateful time got closer. As time ticked away, the surgeons worked feverishly to repair the walls of Roger's heart.

tick by	to pass (of time)	The seconds TICKED BY and the team failed to score.

tick off	to upset; to annoy	She really TICKS me OFF when she doesn't reply to my emails. He really ticked me off! = He really upset me!
tick off	to put a mark on an item in a list when it has been dealt with	She TICKED OFF our names when we arrived.
tick off	to scold	He TICKED me OFF for arriving late.
tick off something	to name a list of things She ticked off six reasons for saying no	She had lots of objections, and she ticked them off one after another.
tick somebody off	if you know what makes someone tick, you understand the reasons for their behaviour and personality A good salesperson knows what makes a customer tick.
tick somebody off	to make someone angry	That really ticks me off! Doesn't that tick off everyone? It just ticks me off to think that anyone who wants to can read my e-mail. It was only a suggestion, not a criticism, and she didn't think it would tick off everyone at the meeting.

tick over	to continue working, but without improving	The company TICKED OVER while she was away on holiday.
tick over	to operate but without moving (engines)	The mechanic left the engine TICKING OVER for a while to see if he could see what was causing the problem.

ticket somebody for some place	to supply a ticket for someone to go to some place	The airlines clerk ticketed me for Houston and checked in my baggage. I was ticketed for both flights, saving me some time.

tide over	to use something carefully so as not to finish it	This ВЈ50 will have to TIDE me OVER until I get paid.
tide somebody over	to supply someone with something they need for a short period We were lucky and got a small loan to tide us over until our customers began to pay us	They're seeking food aid to tide over the starving population until the next harvest.
tide somebody over (until something)	to supply someone until a certain time or until something happens	Will this amount tide us over until next week? There is enough food here to tide over the entire camp until next month. Yes, this will tide us over.

tidy away	Please tiday your stuff away.

tidy something up	to clean something up; to make something more orderly	Please tidy this room up. I'll tidy up the kitchen later.
tidy up	to put things in the correct place in a room	I TIDIED UP my bedroom because it was a complete mess.
tidy up	to clean up [oneself or a place]	Please tidy up. This place is a mess. Please tidy up. You are a mess. Your room looks like a pig sty. You better tidy it up now.

tie (with somebody) (for something)	to have the same score as someone for the prize in some contest	I tied with Joel for first place. I tied for the trophy with Joel.

tie back	to fasten or secure so that it doesn't obstruct	She TIED her hair BACK before playing tennis.

tie down	to remove or restrict freedom	Marriage TIES you DOWN.
tie down	to secure something to prevent it moving	They TIED him DOWN to stop him escaping.
tie down	to stop people (often police or military) going where they are needed	The army was TIED DOWN with the rebellion and couldn't help.

tie in	to agree, be connected or support	The theory TIES IN with what the police have been saying.
tie in with	to occur at the same time	The publication TIES IN WITH the twentieth anniversary of the incident.
tie somebody (up) in !

tie up	to block a road, etc.	The convoy TIED UP the road for an hour.
tie up	to fasten	I TIED UP my shoelaces.
tie up	stop someone doing something	Work has TIED me UP all week.
tie up	to tie or fasten something securely	They TIED UP the hostages so that they couldn't escape.
tie up	to be blocked, stuck. Often used to talk about traffic	Traffic is tied up for miles.
tie up	to be busy	I'm sorry, Mr. Smith is tied up in a meeting right now.

tighten something on(to) something	to make something more tightly attached to something	Will you please tighten this nut onto the bolt? I tightened the lid on the pickle jar.

tighten something up	to make something tighter	Tighten your seat belt up. It looks loose. Can you tighten up all the bolts?
tighten up	to make something more secure or function better	They're TIGHTENING UP security for the president's visit.

till over !

tilt at !

tilt something back	to move something so it leans back	Alice tilted her chair back and nearly fell over. She tilted back her chair and relaxed.

tilt to something	to lean or slant toward something or in a particular direction	The picture tilts to the left. Her head was tilted to the left because she was trying to see around the corner.

time (out)	Stop everything for just a minute! "Hey, stop a minute! Time out!" yelled Mary as the argument grew in intensity	Right in the middle of the discussion, Alice said, "Time!" Then she announced that dinner was ready.

tinge something with something	to give something a bit of the character, color, state of mind, light, etc., of something	The dust in the air had tinged the sunset with orange. The evening air was tinged with the smell of jasmine.

tip of !

tip off	secretly inform the police or authorities	The police arrested the drug dealer after someone TIPPED them OFF.
tip off	to let someone know that something is going to happen. To let someone know where someone/something is, etc.	Someone tipped the police off about where he was hiding.
tip off somebody	to give information to someone Rawson tipped off the Bennetts about this great place to have lunch in Old San Juan	Usage notes: often said about information given to the police or other authorities: Someone called the police to tip them off that the painting was in a locker at the bus station.
tip somebody off (about something/somebody)	to give someone a valuable piece of news about someone or something	I tipped the cops off about Max and where he was going to be that night. I tipped off the mayor about the financial crisis.

tip over	to spill, make something fall on its side	I TIPPED my coffee OVER and ruined my keyboard.
tip over	to topple over and fall	Roger shook the table slightly, and the vase tipped over. The truck was overloaded and looked so heavy that I thought it would tip over.
tip somebody over	to cause someone to fall	Oh! You almost tipped me over! Todd fell against Maggie and tipped her over.
tip something over	to cause something to fall over	Did you tip this chair over? Who tipped over the chair?

tip somebody with something	to pay a tip of a certain amount to someone	I tipped the headwaiter with a twenty or we would still be waiting. How much did you tip the waitress with?

tip something up	to tilt something so it dumps	Jason tipped the wheelbarrow up and dumped the dirt out. He tipped up the glass, dumping the orange juice on the table.

tip at something !

tire of	to get bored of something	She soon TIRED OF the course and dropped out.
tire of somebody/something	to become bored or upset with someone or something I am so tired of him that one day I shall simply ignore him	She was tired of people telling her what to do.
tire of something/somebody	to grow weary of someone or something	She tired of him and left him. I am beginning to tire of the furniture in the living room.

tire out	to make someone exhausted	Working so much TIRES me OUT.
tire somebody out	to exhaust someone	The extra work tired him out a lot. Too much work will tire out the horses.

to begin with	By the time you are forty years old, you have enough experience and skill to do what you want to do with your life (Often said as an encouragement to those reaching middle age)	Alan: Why are you so depressed? Jane: Tomorrow's my fortieth birthday. Alan: Cheer up! Life begins at forty. For Pete, life began at forty, because by that time he had enough financial security to enjoy himself now and then, rather than having to work all the time.
to begin with	first or most importantly To begin with, I don't have enough money to take a trip to Europe this summer.
to begin with	something that you say which means you should try to help your family and friends before you help other people	You ought to stay in and look after your father. Charity begins at home.

toady (up) to somebody	to fawn over someone; to try to flatter and impress someone	Carl is always toadying up to people. He has never toadied to me!

toddle along	to walk along in an unconcerned manner	Kathleen was just toddling along, minding her own business.
toddle along	to walk away	Why don't you toddle along now and let me get some work done?

toddle away	to walk away	Not even noticing what had happened, the old lady got up and toddled away. Sam toddled away, leaving us behind to explain things to the boss. Wally toddled off, leaving his dinner untouched. Don't just toddle off when I'm talking to you!

toddle off	to leave, go home	It's getting late, so I'm going to TODDLE OFF home.

toil for somebody	to do someone else's work	I don't know why I should have to toil for you. Do your own work! I won't toil for him. He can do his own work.
toil for somebody	to work on behalf of someone or for someone's benefit	I don't mind toiling for her as long as she thanks me. I don't know why I toil for you. You are totally ungrateful.
toil for something	to work for a certain rate of pay	It's hard to toil for slave's wages. Do you expect me to toil endlessly for such low pay?
toil for something	to work toward a particular goal or ideal	I am willing to toil for something I believe in. She spent the afternoon toiling for her favorite charity.

toil over something/somebody	to work hard on someone or something	The doctors toiled over the patient for hours. Ken toiled over his model plane well into the night.

toil up something	to work hard to climb something steep	The hikers toiled up the slope slowly. As the bus toiled up the hill, we worried that the engine might be overheating.

tone down	to make something sound more moderate	The Minister tried to TONE DOWN what she had said when the press started attacking her.
tone down	to makes less extreme, more moderate	He toned down his speech to appeal to more people.
tone down something	to make something less forceful or offensive The foul language in the original play has been toned down for television	Your presentation has to be convincing, so don't tone it down.

tone something/somebody up	to make someone or something stronger or more fit, muscularly	I suggested an exercise that would tone him up and make him feel better. The exercises toned up his tummy muscles. I need to get busy and tone myself up.

tongue in !

tool around (in something)	to go around in a car; to speed around in a car	Who is that kid tooling around in that souped-up car? Ann spends a lot of time tooling around in her new car.

tool something up	to equip a factory or production line with particular tools and machines, as for new products	The manager closed down the factory so she could tool it up for the new models. She tooled up the factory in record time.
tool up	to arm yourself or somebody	The gangsters got TOOLED UP before they went into the club.
tool up	to provide equipment	The company spent a lot on TOOLING the factory UP.

top of !

top off	to finish something in a special way	He complained for an hour and to TOP it OFF started shouting his head off.

top out	to stop increasing, reach the highest point	The temperature TOPPED OUT at forty degrees yesterday.

top up	to refill something that isn't empty yet	Shall I TOP UP your drink while I'm pouring myself one?

topple down	[for a stack of something] to crumple and fall down	The chimney toppled down in the earthquake. The woodpile toppled down during the night and scared us all to death.
topple something down	to cause a stack of something to crumple and fall down	The earthquake toppled the chimney down. The hurricane toppled down the weakest buildings.

topple off (of) something	to fall off the top of something very tall (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Careful there! You might topple off of that wall. I didn't get too close to the edge, because I was afraid of toppling off. She toppled off the wall. The vase toppled from its shelf in the quake.

topple over	[for something very tall] to fall over	I was afraid that Jimmy's stack of blocks would topple over. The stack of books toppled over and ended up as a jumbled mess on the floor.

torment somebody into doing something	to force someone to agree to do something through threats or maltreatment	You can't torment me into doing something I don't want to do! Alice was tormented into going on the picnic.

torture somebody into something	to force someone to do something through the use of torture (More severe than torment someone into something)	The agents threatened to torture me into telling the secrets, so I gave in immediately, of course. Max tried to torture the old prospector into telling where the gold was hidden.

toss (somebody) for something	to decide with someone, by tossing a coin, who will get or do something	Let's see who gets to go first. I'll toss you for it. I'll toss for it. Let's toss for it.

toss around something	to consider or think about something Some of us have been tossing around suggestions for improving the show	The morning newspapers print the news, and then commentators toss it around on the evening TV news shows.
toss around something	to use words without thinking carefully about them	The financial press tossed around words like "crash" and "disaster". Students toss bad words around freely.
toss something around	to discuss something	I have a few things to discuss. Can we meet later and toss them around? We tossed around a few ideas after dinner.
toss something/somebody around	to throw someone or something around	The waves tossed him around and almost dashed him on the rocks. The waves tossed around all the little boats.

toss off something	to do or say something quickly, easily, and sometimes without thought He simply tossed off a comment about what women want and it got him into a lot of trouble	He had a great memory for jokes, and could just toss them off one after the other.
toss something off	to drink a drink very quickly	He tossed a few beers off and left. He tossed off a beer.
toss something off	to ignore or resist the bad effects of something	John insulted Bob, but Bob just tossed it off. If I couldn't toss off insults, I'd be miserable.
toss something off	to produce something easily or quickly	I tossed that article off in only an hour. Joe just tossed off a few words and left the room.
toss something off	to throw something off (of oneself)	Bob coughed so hard he tossed his blanket off. Tom tossed off his jacket and sat down to watch television.

toss out somebody/something	to get rid of someone or something She tossed out my old chair	Mrs. Curtis tossed him out of class for laughing.
toss out something	to refuse to accept or consider something The judge tossed out the case two weeks ago	We received thousands of proposals for the memorial, but tossed most of them out because they were dull or inappropriate.
toss out something	to suggest something as a possibility We tossed out half a dozen titles and then discussed what we thought about each one	Now that you've had a chance to look at the memo, I'll toss an idea out to start the discussion.

toss something at something/somebody	to throw something at someone or something	Jimmy tossed an apple at Sarah to see what she would do. John tossed a stone at the wall.

toss something back and forth	to trade remarks, quips, insults, etc.	They tossed insulting remarks back and forth. Walter and David spent the evening tossing quips back and forth.
toss something back and forth	[for two or more people] to toss something to each other alternately	Carol and Kelly tossed the ball back and forth for a few minutes. We will toss the ball back and forth until we get tired.
toss something/somebody back	to throw or force someone or something backward	The blast tossed me back into the room. The blast tossed back the emergency personnel.
toss something/somebody back	to throw someone or something back to where someone or something came from	My father always threatened to toss me back where I came from, the way a fish is returned to the water. I will toss back all the undersize fish.

toss something down	to drink down a drink quickly	He tossed a beer down and left the bar. Sam tossed down a couple of shots.

toss something into something	to cast or throw something into something	Frank tossed the wood into the fire. He tossed in the wood.

toss something together	to assemble something hastily (See also throw something together)	This report is useless. You just tossed it together! This meal was just tossed together, but it was delicious.

toss something up	to throw something upward to a higher place or up into the air	He tossed the coin up, calling "heads" and hoping for the best. He tossed up the coin.

toss something/somebody aside	to throw someone or something aside or out of the way	The kidnapper tossed the child aside and reached for his gun. The soldier tossed aside the helpless civilian and ran into the house. Fred tossed the can aside and Alice picked it up.

toss something/somebody away	to throw someone or something away; to discard someone or something	You can't just toss me away! I'm your husband! She tossed away her husband of twenty years. She tossed the cigarette away.

toss something/somebody off (of) something	to hurl someone or something from something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The gigantic ape was going to toss the woman off of the Empire State Building. The ape did not toss off the woman.

toss something/somebody out of something	to discard someone or something; to throw someone or something out of something or some place	The bartender tossed Walter out of the bar. The litterbug tossed out the empty can.

tote something up	to add something up	The clerk toted the bill up and asked for an enormous sum. Tote up your expense report quickly and submit it to accounts payable.

touch base (with somebody)	to talk briefly to someone I'll touch base with him later today to tell him about the meeting.

touch down	to land (plane, rocket, etc.)	The plane TOUCHED DOWN at Narita airport an hour late. The plane touched down an hour ago.

touch for	to borrow money	I TOUCHED him FOR some cash as I'd forgotten my cards.

touch off	to cause a problem to occur	The government's decision TOUCHED OFF riots in the capital.

touch on	to mention	The talk TOUCHED ON the issue, but didn't give any new information.

touch up	to improve the appearance of something	I couldn't be bothered to redecorate, so I just TOUCHED UP the bits that needed painting the most.
touch up	to touch someone in a sexual way	She got angry when he tried to TOUCH her UP in the elevator.

touch upon	to mention	They didn't TOUCH UPON the subject because of the controversy.

toughen something/somebody up	to cause someone or something to be stronger, more uncompromising, or more severe	A few days behind the service counter at the dis count store will toughen her up quickly. Having to deal with complaints toughened up the clerk quickly. She tried to toughen the skin on her palms up.
toughen up	to become tougher, stronger, or more severe	She will toughen up after a while. You have to be tough around here to survive. You are going to have to toughen up if you want to play on the team.

tout something/somebody around	to promote and boost someone or something publicly	He is touting his favorite candidate around, hoping to get a few votes for her. Roger is touting his book around, trying to boost sales.

tout something/somebody as something	to present someone or something as a beneficial type of person or something	Joel touted his candidate as the best of all. Ann touted her medicine as a cure-all.

tow something/somebody away*	to pull something, such as a car or a boat, away with another car, boat, etc. (The someone refers to the property of someone, not the person)	If I don't get back to my car, they will tow me away. The truck towed away my car. A big truck came and towed the illegally parked car away.

tow something/somebody into something	to pull something, such as a car or a truck, into something, such as a garage (The someone refers to the property of someone, not the person)	They had to tow my car into the garage to be repaired. They towed in my car.

towel something/somebody down	to rub someone or something dry with a towel	The mother toweled her child down and dressed her in clean clothes. She toweled down the child gently. Towel down the dog. He's wet and shaking.

tower above something/somebody	to stand or be much taller than someone or something (Often used in exaggeration)	The basketball player towered above everyone else in the room. The new building towered above all the others in town.

tower of !

toy at	to pretend to think about or think about in a casual way	She TOYED AT getting them to help her but then did it alone.

toy over	to think about something	I TOYED OVER the idea for a while, but decided not to go ahead with it.

toy with	to consider something, but not very seriously	We TOYED WITH the idea of moving to the country, but it isn't really practical.
toy with	to move or play with something to occupy your hands	He TOYED WITH his cup.
toy with	to not eat much of a meal	It was horrible, so I just TOYED WITH the food.
toy with somebody	a young man who is having a sexual relationship with a woman who is much older than him Sheila's gone out rowing with Dieter, her new toy boy	These movie stars seem to have a new boy toy every week.
toy with somebody	to encourage someone to believe you care about them when you do not Don't fool yourself by thinking he wants a serious relationship - he's famous for toying with women.
toy with somebody	to play with something; to fiddle with something	You are just toying with me! Please don't toy with the stereo controls.
toy with somebody	to tease someone; to deal lightly with someone's emotions	Ann broke up with Tom because he was just toying with her. He was not serious at all. Don't toy with me! I won't have it!
toy with something	to handle something or move it around without any clear purpose As he was speaking, he toyed nervously with a button on his jacket.
toy with something	to think about something but not seriously We're toying with the idea of going to Peru next year.

trace around something	to press something against paper and draw a line around the edges that are in contact with the paper	Trace around this piece of material and cut out a new pattern. If you trace around the edges carefully, you will end up with a good drawing of the outline.

trace something/somebody (back) (to something/somebody)	to trail or track the origin of someone or something back to someone or something	We traced her back to the car she had ridden in, but lost her trail at that point. We traced the letter back to her. See if you can trace back the check to its writer.

track down	to find after a long search	It took me ages to TRACK them DOWN in the crowd at the football game.

trade at	some place to buy and sell at some place; to shop at someplace	Do you trade at that store anymore? We don't trade there because their prices are too high.

trade down	to sell something and replace it with something cheaper	Their house it too large now that their children have left home, so they're going to TRADE DOWN to something smaller.
trade down	to exchange something expensive for something that costs less The family traded down to a smaller house, cutting their mortgage payments in half.

trade in	to exchange something old as part of the price of something new	She TRADED IN her old car for the new model.
trade in	to leave your wife or husband to marry someone younger	He TRADED IN his wife when he became the chairman.
trade in something	to return something as part of a payment for something similar I traded in my wonderful little sports car for a much more practical van	The store wouldn't give me a refund on the camera, but they offered to let me trade it in. Usage notes: usually said about a device, a piece of equipment, or a vehicle.
trade something in (for something)	to return something, such as a car, to a place where cars are sold as partial payment on a new car	I traded my old car in on a new one. I traded in my old jalopy for a newer car.

trade insults (with somebody)	to take turns with someone in mutual insulting	We traded insults with each other for a while and then settled down to some serious discussions of our differences.
trade something with somebody	to exchange something with someone	Would you trade seats with me? I want to sit there. Can I trade books with you? This one is dull.

trade off	to accept something you don't really want to get something you do want	We had to TRADE OFF space for the location when buying the apartment.
trade off	to bargain, make a deal or compromise	A longer working week was TRADED OFF for a pay rise.
trade something off	to get rid of something in an exchange	I traded my car off. I traded off my old car for a new one.
trade something off	to sacrifice something in an exchange	You may end up trading job security off for more money. Don't trade off your job security.

trade on	to exploit; use something to your advantage	He TRADES ON their insecurity to get his way.
trade on something	to use a fact or a situation to one's advantage	Tom was able to trade on the fact that he had once been in the army. John traded on his poor eyesight to get a seat closer to the stage.
trade on something	to use something for your own advantage The mayoral candidate ran the kind of campaign that trades on most people's fear of crime	George traded upon his family's powerful connections.

trade something/somebody for something/somebody	to exchange someone or something for someone or something	I will trade you our shortstop for your catcher and two additional promising ball players. I will tradeyou my office desk for a conference table.

trade up	to buy larger or more expensive items	British wine drinkers have TRADED UP over the last few years from cheap plonk to expensive wines.
trade up	to leave your wife or husband and marry someone better looking, richer, etc.	She supported him for years while he was struggling, but when he hit the big time he left her and TRADED UP.
trade up	to replace something with something better or more valuable When Phil needed a new car, he decided to trade up and bought a luxury car.
trade up (to something)	to exchange a lower-level product for a specific higher-level product	I would like to trade up to a more luxurious model. I would like to trade up.
trade up from something	to exchange a specific lower-level product for a higher-level product	I decided to trade up from my little car to a much larger one. I can't afford what I have, let alone be able to trade up to anything.

trade upon	to exploit, use to your advantage	They TRADE UPON their reputation to scare rivals.

traffic in something	to deal in something; to trade in something, usually something illegal	Max had been trafficking in guns for years before they caught him. The president of the country was trafficking in drugs for years.

trail (along)	to drag along after someone or something	His pants were torn, and a piece of his trouser leg trailed along after him. His trouser leg trailed after him.
trail (along)	to follow along after someone or something	A little dog trailed along after Mary and Karen. Is that your dog trailing along?

trail behind	to follow or drag along behind someone or something	A long satin train trailed behind the bride. A long train trailed behind.
trail behind	to move along behind someone or a group in a competition	Sally trailed behind the rest of the marathon runners. Roger trailed behind Dave during most of the race.

trail off	to become quieter His voice trailed off weakly and we could not hear the rest of what he said	The wail of the sirens finally trailed away almost completely.
trail off	to fade away, as with speech, words, singing, etc.	Her voice trailed off as she saw who was waiting at the door. Ken's words trailed away as he passed out.

trail something/somebody by something	to have a smaller score than someone or something by a specific number of points	Our team trails the visiting team by only six points. I trailed her by only a few points.

train (somebody or an animal) as something	to educate someone or an animal to serve in a particular way	We trained him as a first-rate mechanic. I trained my cocker spaniel as a moderately effective watchdog.

train (somebody or an animal) for something	to educate someone or an animal for some purpose	His parents trained him for work in the family business. He was trained for factory work.
train for something	to practice or drill for some task	I am training for the marathon. We all have to train for the upcoming football season.

train somebody in something	to drill and practice someone in a particular skill or body of knowledge	Her mentor trained her in the art of argumentation. I will try to train you in the skills needed to perform this task.

train somebody on something	to educate someone in the use of something	We trained him on the high diving board, but he isn't ready for competition yet. She trained herself on the computer so she could write a book.
train something on (somebody, something, or an animal)	to aim something at someone, something, or an animal	Dave trained the spotlight on Fred, who was just coming out of the building. Train your lens on that bush. There is a deer back there.

traipse around (some place)	to walk or travel around some place	I spent all afternoon traipsing around town looking for just the right gift for Roger. She has been traipsing around all day.

traipse over	to go or arrive carelessly or thoughtlessly	He traipsed over and invited himself in. She came traipsing in at about midnight.

tramp across something	to march or stamp across an area	The kids tramped across the yard and wore a path. Please don't tramp across my garden.

tramp through something	to march or stamp a passage through something	The kids tramped through every puddle in town on their way to school. Don't tramp through every mud puddle you see.

trample (up)on something/somebody	to crush someone or something underfoot (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Please don't trample upon the flowers! The bulls running through the streets trampled on some of the bystanders.

trample something out	to create a pathway by marching or stamping the same trail over and over	The mail carriers have trampled a path out through my marigolds! Jim trampled out a path in my garden.

trample something/somebody down	to crush down someone or something with the feet	Stay out of crowds at rock concerts. Those kids will trample you down if they get excited. The cows trampled down the stalks of corn.

trample something/somebody to something	to stomp or crush someone or something underfoot to the point of death or destruction	The elephant trampled the photographer to death. All the joggers trampled the grass to a muddy mess.

transcribe something from something/somebody	to write something down from an audible source	We transcribed the folktales from authentic storytellers. I transcribed the tale from an old phonograph recording.

transcribe something in something	to represent speech sounds in a phonetic transcription	The editor wanted the pronunciation transcribed in dictionary-style phonetics. It is much easier to transcribe the material in the International Phonetic Alphabet.
transcribe something in something	to transliterate one alphabet into another	Can you translate these roman-ized Korean words into the Korean script? We had to transcribe the entire novel into Cyrillic.
transcribe something in something	to write something down in something	Please transcribe this list of names in your notebook. I can't read what is transcribed in my book.

transfer something (from somebody) (to somebody else)	to reassign something from one person to another	I have to transfer ownership of this car to my daughter. The title of the car was transferred from me to someone else.
transfer something/somebody (from some place) (to some place)	to move or relocate someone or something from one place to another	Her company transferred her from Houston to Los Angeles. We transferred the boxes from one place to another.

transfer something/somebody to somebody	to reassign someone or something to someone	I transferred my secretary to Joel, who can get along with almost anyone. Ann transferred her car registration to her sister.
transfer to something	to have oneself reassigned to something	I am transferring to the accounting department. Andy wanted to transfer to a different school.

transform something/somebody (from something/somebody) (in)to something/somebody	to change someone or something from someone or something into someone or something else	Time had transformed gangly little Rachel into a lovely young woman. Manners transformed Tom from a pest into a prince.

transgress against something/somebody	to make an offense against someone or something (Stilted and formal)	I did not mean to transgress against you. We did not transgress against the rules of the college.

translate something into something

translate something (from something) (to something)	to decode something from something, such as a language, to another	Will you please translate this from Russian into English? I can translate it into Russian from any Romance language.

transliterate something (from something) (to something)	to decode something from one set of symbols to another	Donald transliterated the tale from Cyrillic script into Roman letters and still couldn't read it aloud. Can you transliterate this from the original Bengali script into the Roman alphabet? I will transliterate this into Cyrillic.

transmit something (from some place) (to some place)	to send or dispatch something from one place to another	Can you transmit a fax from your hotel to your office? I can transmit it to any place in the world.

transmit something to something/somebody	to send or dispatch something to someone or something	Please transmit this message to Rachel. I will transmit the message to my office.

transmute something (from something) (to something)	to change something from one thing into another	Do you believe that it is possible to transmute gold into lead? No, you cannot transmute one metal into another.

transpose something (from something) (to something)	to change something, usually in music, from one musical key to another	Can you transpose this from F-sharp to a higher key? It would be easy to transpose it into a higher key.

trap somebody in something	to catch someone in an inconsistency or contradiction	The lawyer trapped the witness in his inconsistencies. She trapped herself in her own argument.
trap something/somebody in something	to catch someone or something in a trap	Jed accidentally trapped Tex in his bear trap. Jerry trapped a rabbit in his trap.

travel across something	to make a journey across something or some place	We have to travel across the desert to get there. I do not want to travel across that rickety bridge on the way back.

travel by something	to make a journey under particular conditions	I don't ever travel by night. We like to travel by day so we can see the scenery.
travel by something	to make a journey, using a particular conveyance	I will go by train, since I don't like to travel by plane. We traveled by car, since that is the cheapest.

travel for something/somebody	to go from place to place selling for someone or a company	Walter travels for his uncle, who runs a toy factory. She travels for a company that makes men's clothing.

travel on something	to make a journey on a particular conveyance	Do you like to travel on the train? I do not care to travel on the bus.
travel on something	to travel having certain bodily states, such as on an empty stomach, on a full stomach	I hate traveling on a full stomach. I can't stand to travel on a full stomach.

travel over something	to go over something as part of a journey	We had to travel over an old bridge over the Mississippi to get to my sister's house. We will travel over a long narrow strip of land to get to the marina.
travel over something	to travel widely over a great area	She spent the summer traveling over Europe. I have traveled over the entire country and never failed to find someone I could talk to.

travel through something	to make a journey through some area or country	We will have to travel through Germany to get there. Do you want to travel through the desert or through the mountains?
travel through something	to make a journey through some kind of weather condition	I hate to travel through the rain. I refuse to travel through a snowstorm.

travel to (somewhere)

travel with somebody	to associate with someone; to move about in association with someone	She travels with a sophisticated crowd. I am afraid that Walter is traveling with the wrong group of friends.
travel with somebody	to make a journey with someone	Do you mind if I travel with you? Who are you going to travel with?

treat somebody (for something) (with something)	to attempt to cure someone's illness, injury, or disease with something	The doctor treated me for the flu with aspirin. It didn't work, but it was cheap. They treated him for his broken bones. Ann treated him with the appropriate therapy.

treat somebody to something	to provide and pay for something for someone as a gift or as entertainment	I will be delighted to treat you to dinner. After the play, they treated themselves to pie and coffee.

treat somebody with !

treat something/somebody as something	to deal with someone or something as something	Please don't treat me as a guest. You treat the editorial board as a needless barrier.

treat something/somebody like something/somebody	to deal with someone or something as if the person or thing were really someone, a type of a person, or something	I like him. He treats me like a king. He treats Jane like Mary - ;he ignores them both.

trek across something	to hike or march across something	The scouts trekked across the fields of the small farming community. I don't look forward to trekking across the desert.

trek to	some place to hike or march to some place	I have to trek all the way to the store because my car is in the shop. We trekked to the cabin and made that our base camp for the whole two weeks.

tremble at something	to shake with fear or anticipation at the thought of something	David trembled at the thought of having to go to Russia by himself. Carl trembled at the idea of winning first place.

tremble from something	to shake or vibrate in response to something like an explosion or an earthquake	The house trembled from the blast. I could feel the bridge trembling from the minor earthquake that I was hearing about on the radio.

tremble with something	to tremble because of something	The children trembled with fear during the storm. David trembled with rage when he saw his slashed tires.

trespass (up)on something	to intrude or encroach onto a restricted or private area (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	You had better not trespass upon Mr. Green's land. I wouldn't trespass on that fenced-off land!

trick into	He tried to trick her into doing it his way.
trick somebody into (doing) something	to fool someone; to deceive someone; to cheat someone	The thief tricked John into giving him $10. Mary tricked her friends into paying for her dinner.

trick somebody out of something	to get something from someone by trickery	You can't trick me out of my money. I'm not that dumb! Stay alert so that no one tricks you out of your money. They tricked the information out of Bob.

trickle away	[for a liquid] to seep or dribble away	All the water trickled away down the drain. After the last of the spilled milk had trickled away, Timmy began to cry.

trickle down	to pass benefits from economic expansion through the economy to the less fortunate	Despite the economic boom, few benefits have TRICKLED DOWN to the poor.
trickle down	[for a liquid] to seep or dribble downward to reach someone or something	The water trickled down the wall to the floor. It trickled down very slowly.
trickle down	[for something] to be distributed to someone or something in little bits at a time	The results of the improved economy trickled down to people at lower-income levels. Information about what happened finally trickled down to me.

trickle in	[for a liquid] to seep or dribble into something or a place	Some of the rainwater trickled into my car through a leak. It trickled in during the night.
trickle in	[for someone or something] to come into something or a place, a few at a time	The audience trickled into the hall little by little. They trickled in over a period of an hour or more.

trickle out	[for a liquid] to leak or dribble out of something or a place	The oil trickled out of the engine little by little. It trickled out and made a puddle on the floor.
trickle out	[for someone or something] to go out of something or a place, a few at a time	The dissatisfied members of the audience trickled out of the theater three and four at a time. They trickled out as the evening wore on.

trickle through	[for a liquid] to seep through something	The water trickled through the cracked windowpane. They taped the glass, but the water trickled through anyway.
trickle through	[for someone or something] to move through something little by little	The people trickled through the door into the store in far smaller numbers than we had expected. They trickled through very slowly.

trifle something away (on something/somebody)	to waste something, such as money, on someone or something, little by little	Don't trifle all your money away on your friends. Don't trifle away any more money on silly purchases.

trifle with something/somebody	to act without seriousness or respect toward someone or something	Don't talk that way to me! I am not to be trifled with. I wish that Ann wouldn't trifle with our efforts at reform.

trigger somebody off	to cause someone to become angry (on trigger something off)	Your rude comments triggered her off. Your comments triggered off Bob's temper.

trim (oneself) down	to take action to become slimmer or lose weight	I need to trim myself down before I go on vacation. I decided to trim down, but I never got around to it. You really need to trim down and stay at a lower weight.
trim something down	to reduce the size of something	You will have to trim the picture down to get it into the frame. Trim down the picture before you frame it.

trim something away (from something)	to cut something away (from something)	The butcher trimmed the fat away from the steak. Please trim away the fat from the meat.

trim something from something	to cut something away from something	I trimmed the fat from the steaks. We had to trim a lot of the fat from the meat after we got it home.

trim something off (of) something/somebody	to cut something off someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	I asked the barber to trim the beard off of Ralph. The barber trimmed off Ralph's beard.

trip along	to move along happily	The kids tripped along on their way to school. We were just tripping along, not having any notion of what was about to happen.

trip on something/somebody	to stumble on someone or something	The place was filled with sleeping people. I tripped over perfect strangers on my way to the door. I tripped on a brick and fell into the wall.

trip over	to fall	I TRIPPED OVER and hurt my knee.
trip over	to fall because you hit an obstacle	I TRIPPED OVER the kerb and broke my nose.

trip somebody up	to cause someone to falter while speaking, thinking, etc.	Mary came in while the speaker was talking and the distraction tripped him up. The noise in the audience tripped up the speaker.
trip somebody up	to cause someone to make a mistake The lawyer used what he knew about her personality to trip her up in court	I did fine on most of the test, but I tripped up on the last problem.
trip somebody up	to cause someone to trip; to entangle someone's feet (Someone includes oneself)	The rope strewn about the deck tripped him up. The lines tripped up the crew.
trip somebody up	to dance There I was, tripping the light fantastic in a sequinned ballgown.
trip up	to make a mistake	I TRIPPED UP in the interview when they asked me about what I could offer the company.

triumph over something/somebody	to achieve victory over someone or something	Our team triumphed over all the others. Our army triumphed over theirs.

troop across something/somebody	[for a mass of creatures] to move across someone or something	The huge herds of wildebeest began to troop across the plain in search of food. The ants trooped across Karen as she lay in the sand.

troop in(to something)	to flock or march into something or some place in numbers	The scouts trooped into the mess hall and sat down. They trooped in and sat down.

trot after somebody	to follow along after someone, as done by a small dog	The puppy trotted along after the kids wherever they went. My little brother would always come trotting after us, annoying us a lot.

trot out	make a statement (meant negatively)	The spokeswoman TROTTED OUT the same old unconvincing excuses.
trot out somebody/something	to bring someone or something to the attention of others, so they can see or admire it The military trotted out all their experts to testify for the new weapons system	She trotted her espresso machine out this morning and made us all coffee.
trot something out	to mention something regularly or habitually, without giving it much thought (on the image of trotting out a pony for display)	When James disagreed with Mary, she simply trotted her same old political arguments out. Bob always trots out the same excuses for being late.
trot something/somebody out	to bring out and display someone or something	The boss trotted the new vice president out for us to meet. The boss trotted out his daughter and introduced her as a new vice president. Fred trotted out his favorite project for everyone to see.

trudge along	to plod along on foot	It seemed as if we trudged along for miles. As we trudged along, we forgot how cold it was.

trudge through something	to walk through snow, sand, or something similar	We trudged through the hot sand all the way down the beach. I used to have to trudge through snow like this all winter to get to school.
trudge through something	to work one's way through something difficult	I hate to have to trudge through these reports on the weekend. I have to trudge through a lot of work before I can go home.

true to !

trump something up	to promote or boost something	They think they have to trump something up to get people to see it. They trumped up the movie so much that many people were disappointed when it finally came out.
trump something up	to think something up; to contrive something	Do you just sit around trumping charges up against innocent people? They trumped up the charges in an effort to disgrace me.
trump up	charge or accuse someone falsely	The police TRUMPED UP the charges against him and he ended up in prison though he hadn't done it.

truss something/somebody up	to bind, tie, or bundle someone or something up	The attendants trussed Walter up and took him to a padded cell. They trussed up Walter tightly. Ann trussed the bundle up and sent it off.

trust in something/somebody	to believe in someone or something	Trust in me. I know what I am saying. Can I trust in the figures in this report?

trust somebody for something	to depend on someone for payment for something	I will lend you one hundred dollars. I know I can trust you for it. I loaned Ted a lot of money. It's all right. I can trust him for it.

trust somebody to do something	to believe that someone can be relied on to do something	You can trust her to be here on time. I can't trust myself to eat wisely.
trust something/somebody to somebody	to leave someone or something in the possession of someone whom you assume will take good care of someone or something	Can I trust my little Jimmy to you? I am perfectly comfortable trusting this money to you.

trust somebody with something/somebody	to leave someone in the care of someone or something	Can I trust you with my uncle? He needs to have his medicine right on time. I am sure I can trust you with the money. Don't leave that cake with me. I can't trust myself with it.

try back	to phone back	I called but they weren't in, so I'll TRY BACK later.
try back	to call someone again because he/she isn't around	Richard isn't around right now. Try back in 30 minutes.

try for	to make an attempt to get something	I'm going to TRY FOR the job.

try it on	to attempt to get something, usually by deceit, without great hopes of success	He knew I wasn't got to let him do it- he was just TRYING IT ON.
try it on	to provoke someone by being annoying or behaving badly	The children were TRYING IT ON all night until I lost my temper.
try on	to put clothes on to see if they fit	I TRIED the jacket ON before I bought it.
try on	to put on or wear something to see if it suits or fits	I'm not sure about the size. Can I try it on?
try on	to put on a piece of clothing to see how it fits	She tried on seven dresses, but didn't like any of them.
try on something; try something on
try something (on) (for size)	to evaluate an idea or proposition	Now, try on this idea. Try this plan for size. I think you'll like it.
try something (on) (for size)	to put on an article of clothing to see if it fits	Here, try this on for size and see if it fits any better. Please try on this shirt for size.
try something (on) for size	to test something so you can form an opinion about it I don't think everyone would be happy working here, but you should try it on for size and see if it's right for you.
try something on	to sample clothing	I'm going to try these jeans on, but I don't think they will fit.

try out	to test	Scientists are TRYING OUT a new drug in the fight against the disease. Let's try out this candy store.
try out	to test something to see if you like it or want to buy it	I TRIED OUT the program before I bought it.
try out	When talking about teams, bands, etc. - To attempt to become accepted as a member	She tried out for the basketball team, but they told her that she was too short.
try out for	to be tested for a sports team	He TRIED OUT FOR the baseball team.
try out something; try something out
try something out	to test	I am going to try this new brand of detergent out.

tuck (somebody) in	to put someone to bed, making sure that his/her pillows, sheets, etc. are comfortable	When I was a child, my mom used to tuck me in every night.
tuck in	to arrange the sheets, duvet or blankets to make someone, usually a child, comfortable in bed	He TUCKED her IN and read her a story.
tuck in	to start eating enthusiastically	The dinner smelled so good I couldn't wait to TUCK IN.
tuck in	to tidy the ends of items of clothing by placing them inside something	I forgot to TUCK my shirt IN.
tuck in somebody	if two people who are competing are nip and tuck, they have almost the same number of points and either of them could win There's no saying who's going to win this game	It's been nip and tuck all the way.
tuck in somebody	to cover a child comfortably in bed I tucked in Josh and Amy after reading them a story	Who's going to tuck me in while you're gone?
tuck somebody in(to) something	to place someone into something carefully; to wrap someone in blankets or something similar	Father tucked Jimmy into bed an hour later than he should have. Please tuck in Jimmy.
tuck something in (to) something	to fold or stuff something into something	Please tuck your shirttail into your pants. Tuck in your shirt tail. When you make the bed, you have to tuck the sheets in.

tuck away	to eat a lot	We TUCKED AWAY a huge dinner before we went out.
tuck away	to put something in a safe place	I TUCKED the money AWAY in my drawer.
tuck away	to set aside, to hide	He tucked away the money that his grandfather gave him.

tuck into	to start eating something	I was starving and TUCKED INTO the food.

tuck something around something/somebody	to wrap something snugly around someone or something	I tucked crumpled newspapers around the cups in the box to keep them from breaking. Molly-Jo tucked the covers around the baby.

tuck something away	to eat something	The boys tucked away three pizzas and an apple pie. When I was younger, I could tuck away my dinner in no time at all.
tuck something away	to hide or store something away	Tuck this away where you can find it later. Can you tuck away this money somewhere?

tuck something up	to raise up some part of one's clothing and attach it temporarily	She tucked her skirt up and waded through the flooded basement. She tucked up her skirt.
tuck something up (under something)	to place or push something, such as cloth, up under something	Tuck the sheet up under the mattress when you make the bed. Tuck up the sheet under the mattress when you make the bed.
tuck up	to arrange the sheets, duvet or blankets to make someone, usually a child, comfortable in bed	She TUCKED her children UP in bed and switched the lights off.

tumble along	to roll or bounce along	The ball tumbled along, across the lawn and into the street. As the boulder tumbled along, it crushed everything in its path.

tumble down	to fall down; to topple	The old barn was so rickety that it almost tumbled down on its own. The pile of books tumbled down all over the floor.
tumble something/somebody down something	to tip or push someone or something down something	Timmy tumbled his brother down the hill. Ann tumbled her laundry down the chute.

tumble from something	to fall from something	The food tumbled from the tray and fell to the floor. The books tumbled from the shelf during the earthquake.

tumble into something/somebody	to fall down and roll into someone or something (Either accidentally or on purpose)	Liz tripped and tumbled into the table. She tumbled into Ken.

tumble out of something	to fall, topple, or drop out of something	Don't let the baby tumble out of the chair! Thechildren tumbled out of the car and ran for the school building.

tumble over	to fall over	The vase tumbled over and broke. I held Timmy up to keep him from tumbling over.
tumble over (something)	to fall over the edge of something	Stay away from the edge. I don't want any of you tumbling over it. Don't go too close. You'll tumble over.

tune in	and tune in (to something)	to pay attention to someone or something. I just can't tune in on these professors. I listen and I try, but I just can't tune in.
tune in	to adjust a radio or television set to receive a broadcast of someone or something	Let's tune in on the late news. I don't want to tune in tonight.
tune in	to watch something on TV, to listen to the radio/a podcast	Tune in to our live ESL podcast every Monday at 7:00 PM.
tune in	to watch or listen to a tv or radio show	Be sure to TUNE IN next week for the next episode.
tune in (to something)	to turn on and watch or listen to television or radio Millions of viewers tuned in, hoping to learn more about the princess's death	We usually tune into the morning news when we wake up.
tune in to	to watch or listen to a tv or radio programme	Make sure you TUNE IN TO next week's show.
tune something in	to adjust a radio or television set so that something can be received	Couldyou tune the newscast in? Please tune in the station a little better.

tune out	to ignore, not pay attention	I TUNED him OUT because he was talking such rubbish.
tune out	to cease paying attention to anything at all	I wasn't interested, so I just tuned out. I think that most of the audience tuned out during the last part of the lecture.
tune out (somebody/something)	to stop paying attention to someone or something Beverly always tunes out in the middle of her music lesson	He's been tuning me out ever since I tried to talk to him about his drinking.
tune something/somebody out	to put someone or something out of one's consciousness; to cease paying attention to someone or something	I had to tune the radio out in order to concentrate. I tuned out what the speaker was saying and daydreamed for a while.

tune something up	to adjust an engine to run the best and most efficiently	You need to tune this engine up. Please tune up this engine so it will run more economically.
tune up	to improve the performance of a machine or engine	He's TUNED his car UP for the race.
tune up	to tune a musical instrument before playing	The orchestra TUNED UP their instruments before the concert.
tune up	[for one or more musicians] to bring their instruments into tune	You could hear the orchestra behind the curtain, tuning up. We have to tune up before the concert.
tune up (for something)	to prepare for something The coach feels confident that the team is tuned up for tonight's game.
tune up something	to adjust an engine or vehicle so that it works as well as possible I haven't tuned up my car in two years	The motorcycle isn't running right, but she can't afford to tune it up.

tunnel through something	to make a tunnel or passageway through something or a group of people	Roger had to tunnel through the crowd to get to the rest room. The workers tunneled through the soft soil to reach the buried cable.

tunnel under something/somebody	to dig a tunnel under someone or something	All the time she was standing in the yard talking about the moles, they were tunneling under her. They took many months to tunnel under the English Channel.

turn (away) (from something/somebody)	to turn oneself to avoid someone or something	She turned away from me as I walked past, pretending not to see me. She turned from Ken and ran.

turn (something) up	to make something louder	Turn up the radio - I love that song!

turn against	to stop liking and start disliking	The public TURNED AGAINST the government when they became arrogant and ceased to listen.

turn around/about	The car turned around and went the other way.

turn away	not allow someone to enter a place	The doorman TURNED him AWAY from the nightclub because he was wearing trainers.

turn back !

turn down	to diminish the intensity; reject
turn down	He turned his collar down, when he entered her house. Turn the music down a little, will you? Our proposal was turned down.
turn down	to reduce volume, temperature, etc.	The room was too hot, so she TURNED the heating DOWN.
turn down	to refuse	I couldn't turn down an offer like that!
turn down	to reject; to say no to; to reject an offer, invitation, etc.	They offered her the job, but she TURNED it DOWN. The new candidate turned down the job offer.
turn down something/somebody; turn something/somebody down
turn something down	to decrease the volume or strength (heat, light etc.)	Please turn the TV down while the guests are here.
turn something down	to refuse	I turned the job down because I don't want to move.
turn down (on something/somebody) !

turn in	to go to bed	I TURNED IN at half past eleven because I had an early start the next morning. It's late. We're going to turn in. I need some sleep. I'm going to turn in now.
turn in	to hand in
turn in something; turn something in

turn into	to become; to transform into	Tadpoles TURN INTO frogs. The frog turned into a Prince after the Princess kissed him.

turn off	to stop a machine	I TURNED the TV OFF and went to bed.
turn off	to switch off	Could you please turn the radio off?
turn off something; turn something off
turn something off	to stop the energy flow, switch off	Your mother wants you to turn the TV off and come for dinner.

turn on	to attack	The neighbor's dog TURNED ON me when I tried to stroke it.
turn on	to cause someone to feel attraction or pleasure	He really TURNS me ON.
turn on	to start a machine	I TURNED the radio ON to get the weather forecast.
turn on	to switch on	Don't forget to turn on the lights when the sun goes down.
turn on	to start by turning a handle or switch	Turn on the light - it's dark in here.
turn on	to turn (someone) on; to excite (often sexually)	Girls like that really turn me on.
turn on something; turn something on
turn something on	to start the energy, switch on	It's too dark in here. Let's turn some lights on.
turn on somebody !

turn out	to attend	Thousand TURNED OUT for the demonstration.
turn out	to produce	The factory TURNS OUT three thousand units a day.
turn out	to produce an unexpected result	It looked as if we were going to fail, but it TURNED OUT well in the end.
turn out	to somehow to end in a particular way, such as well, badly, all right, etc.	I hope everything turns out all right. The party did not turn out well.
turn out	to stop a light; to switch off	She TURNED OUT the lights and went to bed.
turn out	to appear. To come. (to a protest, an event, etc.)	500,000 people turned out for the concert.
turn out	to happen or become known to happen in a particular way She assured him that everything would turn out all right	It turns out that Ray had borrowed the money from one of his students.
turn out	to produce an unexpected result	I thought he was an honest man, but it turns out he had been lying to me all along.
turn out	[for something] to aim outward	Her toes turned out just right for a ballet dancer. The legs of the chair turned out just a little, adding a bit of stability.
turn out (all right)	to end satisfactorily	I hope everything turns out all right. Oh, yes. It'll all pan out. Things usually work out, no matter how bad they seem.
turn out (for something)	to come, appear, or be present for something A lot of students turned out for the demonstration	The last time she performed here the whole town turned out.
turn out (that)	to happen; to end up; to result	After it was all over, it turned out that both of us were pleased with the bargain. Have you heard how the game turned out?
turn out something	to produce or make something Which university turns out the most successful scientists? The factory is turning the dolls out as fast as it can.
turn somebody out	to send someone out of somewhere	I didn't pay my rent, so the manager turned me out. I'm glad it's not winter. I'd hate to turn out someone in the snow.
turn somebody out	to train or produce someone with certain skills or talents	The state law school turns lawyers out by the dozen. A committee accused the state university of turning out too many veterinarians.
turn somebody out (of somewhere)	to force someone to leave a place They turned him out of the shelter when they discovered he was using drugs	She was forced to leave home, turned out at the age of 16.
turn something out	to manufacture or produce something in numbers	The factory turns too few cars out. The factory turns out about seventy-five cars a day.
turn something out	to turn off a light	Please turn the hall light out. Turn out the light.

turn over	to bring the reverse side up
turn over	to give to the authorities	The court ordered the company to TURN OVER their financial records.

turn something up	to increase the volume or strength (heat, light etc.)	Can you turn the music up? This is my favourite song.
turn up (on something/somebody) !
turn up	to appear (suddenly); to be found	Our cat turned up after we put posters up all over the neighbourhood. She didn't TURN UP for class today. I'm sure your wallet will turn up somewhere.
turn up	to increase volume, temperature, etc.; to increase the intensity; make an appearance	I TURNED the music UP full blast. Turn your cuffs up, please. Something always turns up. Apparently, new evidence has turned up.
turn up something; turn something up

turn to	to take up a habit	He TURNED TO drink after he lost his job.
turn to	to try to get help	She had nobody to TURN TO when her husband died.

tussle with something/somebody	to argue or contend with someone, a group, or something	I tussled with my conscience all night. We tussled with the committee and won our point.
tussle with something/somebody	to struggle or battle with someone or something	Tim tussled with Roger for a while, and then they made peace. I tussled with the trunk, trying to get it into the attic.

tweak something off (of) something/somebody	to flick something off someone or something; to remove something from someone or something by pinching (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Sarah tweaked a little beetle off of Fred. Sarah tweaked off a little bug.

twine around something	to weave or coil around something	The snake twined around the branch. As the vine grew, it twined around the lamppost.

twist around	to turn around part way at the waist, without moving one's feet or legs	Nancy twisted around to get a better look at who was sitting behind her. I had to twist around to see who was there.
twist something around something/somebody	to wrap something around someone or something	Max twisted the wire around Lefty, and totally immobilized him. I twisted the rope around the post and tied a knot.

twist of !

twist something into something	to change or distort something into something else, as if by twisting	Kelly twisted the balloons into the shape of a dog. Ann twisted the silver wires into an earring.

twist something off (of) something	to take something off something by twisting (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Fran twisted the top off of the bottle of mineral water and poured it. She twisted off the top.

twist something out of something	to remove something from something by twisting	Flo twisted the cork out of the bottle and smelled the wine. Roger twisted the bulb out of its socket and replaced it with a good one.

twist up	to become twisted	The rope twisted up and had to be unwound.
twist up	to move upward in a twisting path	The smoke twisted up into the sky. As the car twisted up the narrow path, we got a good view of the valley.

twist/wrap somebody around/round your little finger	to be able to persuade someone to do anything you want, usually because they like you so much He'd do anything you asked him to	You've got him wrapped around your little finger!

type something into something	to insert information into a form or a place on a form by typing or keying it	Please type your name and address into this box. Please type in your name.

type something out	to make some information presentable by typing or keying it	Please type this out before you submit it to the board for approval. Can you type out this report before quitting time?

type something up	to type a handwritten document; to type a document, perhaps using a computer	I will give this to you as soon as I type it up. Please type up this document.
type up	to type a finished version	She TYPED UP her lecture notes and printed them out.


unburden oneself to somebody	to tell someone about one's trouble or anxiety	I didn't mean to unburden myself to you. I'm just so upset. She unburdened herself to her mother.

undertake to do something	to try to do something; to take the responsibility of doing something	The carpenter undertook to repair the door frame. I will undertake to fix it.

unfold into something	[for a story] to develop into something interesting	The story unfolded into a real mystery. The tale unfolded into a farce.
unfold into something	[for something folded up] to unfold into something	The greeting card unfolded into a little paper house. It unfolded into a cute scene.
unfold something into something	to spread something out into something	The child unfolded the page into a model village. I unfolded the brochure into a large colorful sheet of advertising.

unify something/somebody into something	to combine people or things into a united whole	The mayor unified his party into a powerful force. I unified the committee into a strong body.

unite against something/somebody	to join against someone or something	We will unite against the opposing forces. We must unite against the incumbent legislators.

unite for something	to join together for some purpose	All the forces united for the attack. We will unite for a great party.
unite somebody against something/somebody	to cause people to join together against someone or something	The mayor united his staff against the federal investigators. Ted united us against John. They united themselves against the enemy.

unite in something	to come together in something	Let us unite in our efforts. We will unite in song.
unite somebody in something	to join two or more people in something, usually marriage	The preacher united the couple in matrimony. A judge united them in marriage.

unite something/somebody (together)	to join people or groups of people together	They united all the workers together for the strike. The event united together the people who cared about the quality of life.

unite something/somebody into something	to form something by merging people together; to form something by merging things together	Let us unite the party into a powerful political force. We will unite ourselves into a powerful force.

unite something/somebody with something/somebody	to join people or things, in any combination	We united Tom with his brother Arnold during the evening. We united our committee with the president in an effort to expand our influence.
unite with somebody	to join with someone; to go or come together with someone	I was pleased to unite with my family for the holidays. The brothers united with their sister after many years of separation.

unleash something/somebody (up)on something/somebody	to turn someone or something loose on someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The air force unleashed a bombing attack upon the enemy. The mob chief unleashed his tough guys on Lefty.

unleash something/somebody against something/somebody	to turn someone or something loose against someone or something	The army unleashed a horrible attack against the enemy. Max unleashed his bullies against the helpless merchants.

unload something from something	to take things off of something; to remove the burden from something	Please unload the groceries from the car. I unloaded the groceries from the bags.

unload something/somebody on (to) somebody	to get rid of a burdensome person or thing on someone else	I unloaded my obnoxious little cousin onto his aunt. I didn't mean to unload my problems onto you.

up against somebody/something	in opposition to someone or something In the music competition, Tyler was up against some of the best singers in the country	Next week, our field hockey team will go up against the best team in this area.

upbraid somebody for something	to scold someone for doing something	The judge upbraided David severely for his crime. Walter upbraided his son for denting the car.

update somebody about something/somebody	to tell someone the latest news about someone or something	Please update me about the current situation in France. Please update me about Tony.

upgrade something/somebody to something	to raise someone or something to a higher grade or rank	Please upgrade me to first class. They upgraded the terrorist alert status to red.
upgrade to something	to move up to a higher grade or rank	I would like to upgrade to a first-class seat. Please upgrade me to a better room.

uproot somebody from	to some place	to cause someone to move from a well-established home or setting. You should not uproot people from the land in which they were born. I just couldn't uproot myself from my home.
uproot something from some place	to take up a plant or tree, roots and all	Wally uprooted the bush from the backyard and replanted it on the other side of the house. Who uprooted a rosebush from my garden?

urge somebody along	to encourage someone to continue or go faster	We urged them along with much encouragement. They won't do well, but we urged them along anyway.

urge somebody forward	to encourage someone to move forward	The generals urged the troops forward. Sally urged Timmy forward into the classroom.

urge somebody to do something	to try to get someone to do something	I urge you to give skiing a try. Ken urged Lily to finish her dinner.

urge something (up)on somebody	to try to get someone to take something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Arnold urged the new policy on the employees. He urged restraint upon them.

use for !

use something up	to finish the supply	The kids used all of the toothpaste up so we need to buy some more.
use up	to finish a product (so that there's none left)	The kids have used up all the toothpaste.
use up	to finish or consume all of something	We USED UP all the olive oil.
use up	to use all of something	You used up all the toothpaste - How am I supposed to brush my teeth? You can use it up. I have more of it.

use something/somebody as an excuse	to blame someone or something (for a failure) (See also use someone or something as something)	John used his old car as an excuse for not going to the meeting. My husband was sick in bed, and I used him as an excuse.

usher in something	to signal the beginning of something We will usher in the new year with champagne and dancing	Another powerful storm system ushered in wind and rain, causing great damage here.
usher somebody in	to greet one as one is ushered into something or some place	The Franklins welcomed us into their home. Please welcome in our new members.
usher somebody in	to show that someone is welcome He opened the door wide and with a welcoming arm, ushered them in	Usage notes: also used in the form usher someone into something ( to welcome someone to the start of something): Graduation ceremonies are designed to usher the new graduates into adult life.

usher somebody to something	to escort or lead someone to something, such as a seat, the door, etc.	The well-dressed gentleman ushered the bride to the altar. Her father ushered her to the altar.

usher something/somebody into some place	to escort or lead a person, a group, or something into a place	The guard ushered the group into the palace. They ushered in the visitors.

usher something/somebody out of some place	to escort or lead someone or a group out of a place	We ushered them from the room. The woman ushered out the guest.


vaccinate (somebody or an animal) against something	to inoculate or immunize someone or an animal against some disease	They had to vaccinate us against yellow fever. The vet vaccinated the horse against everything that threatened it.
vaccinate (somebody or an animal) with something	to inoculate or immunize someone or an animal with some substance	This time the doctor vaccinated Tom with killed virus. The vet vaccinated the cat with something that would prevent rabies.

vacillate between (somebody and somebody else) (or something and something else)	to waver between a choice of people or a choice of things	He kept vacillating between Fred and Alice. Wayne vacillated between chocolate and vanilla.

vacuum something out	to clean an enclosed area out with a vacuum cleaner	Please vacuum this car out now! Can you vacuum out the car?

value something/somebody above something/somebody	to hold someone or something to be more important than someone or something	I value her above all things. He values his car above his family!

value something/somebody as something	to hold someone or something in esteem as something; to find someone or something to be as good as something	I value you as a close friend. I value this watch as a keepsake.

value something/somebody for something	to hold someone or something in esteem for a particular quality	I value him for his skill in negotiation. I value this car for its speed and dependability.

vanish away	to disappear (The away is considered redundant)	The pizza vanished away in no time at all. The city lights vanished away as dawn broke.

vanish from something	to disappear from something or some place	The money vanished from the desk drawer. My glasses have vanished from sight again.

vanish into something	to disappear by going into something	All the deer vanished into the forest. Money seems to vanish into a black hole.

vary (from something) (in something)	to differ from something	This one varies from that one in many ways. It varies from the other one a little.
vary from (something to something)	to fluctuate over the range from something to something	The colors vary from red to orange. It varies from warm to very hot during the summer.

vary between (somebody and somebody else)	to fluctuate in choosing between people or things	In choosing a bridge partner, Sam varied between Tom and Wally. I varied between chocolate and vanilla cake for dessert.
vary between (something and something else)	to fluctuate between one thing and another	The daytime temperatures vary between 80 and 90 degrees. She varies between angry and happy.

vary with something	to be at variance with someone's figures or a sum or estimate	My figures vary with yours considerably. Her estimate varies with yours by a few dollars.
vary with something	to change according to something	The rainfall in New York State varies with the season. His mood varies with the stock market average.

vault into something	to jump or dive into something	The diver vaulted into the pool. He vaulted into bed and pulled up the covers.

vault over something/somebody	to jump or leap over someone or something	Molly vaulted over Ted and kept on running. She vaulted over the trunk.

veer (away) (from something/somebody)	to swerve away from someone or something; to turn aside to avoid someone or something	The plane veered away from the mountain. The car veered from the children who were in its path.
veer away from	To avoid	As a cameraman, I would veer away from those types of shots.

veer off (from something/somebody)	to turn or steer sharply away from someone or something	The bird veered off from the cluster of trees. The bird veered off and missed hitting the post.

veer toward something/somebody	to turn sharply or swerve toward someone or something	The car suddenly veered toward me. The horse veered toward the side of the bridle path.

veg out	to cease working and take it easy; to vegetate	Someday, I just want to veg out and enjoy life. I think I'll just veg this weekend.
veg out	to relax, do nothing; to kick back	I am going to VEG OUT in front of the TV tonight. Jim was just vegging out at home.

vent something (up)on something/somebody	to release one's emotional tension on someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Henry vented his anger on Carl. It's no use to vent your hatred on a door. Kicking it won't help.

venture (up)on something/somebody	to come upon someone or something by chance (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on; The entire expression is formal or stilted)	David ventured upon Fred, who was out looking for mushrooms. I ventured on a little shop on Maple Street that deals in old model trains.

venture forth	to leave somewhere safe or comfortable	If the storm has finished, we could VENTURE FORTH.
venture forth	to go forth bravely	Let us venture forth and conquer the enemy. We will arm ourselves and venture forth against our foe.
venture forth	to set out; to go forward; to go out cautiously	George ventured forth into the night. I think I will venture forth. It looks safe.

verge (up)on something	to be almost identical to something; to be similar to or almost the same as something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	Your actions verge upon mutiny. What you said verges on an insult.

verify something with somebody	to check with someone to make sure that something is the truth	I will have to verify your story with the storekeeper. I verified your story with the other witness.

vest somebody with something	to grant power, rights, or ownership to someone	Who vested you with the power to order me around? The dictator vested himself with the power to imprison almost anyone.

vest something in something/somebody	to grant sole power or control over something to someone or some group	The king vested all the military power in his own hands. The constitution vests the power to tax in the legislature.

vindicate somebody of something	to clear or acquit someone of something	The police sought to vindicate Donald of the charges. They vindicated themselves of the charges with a clear alibi.

visit from !

visit something (up)on somebody	to inflict something upon someone (Stilted; Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The FBI visited a plague of investigations on the mayor's staff. The storm visited disaster on the little village.

volunteer as something	to submit oneself as a person ready or willing to do something	Would you be willing to volunteer as a marcher? I will volunteer as a helper in the hospital.

volunteer for something	to submit oneself for some task without being asked	Ivolunteered for the job. I didn't volunteer for this.
volunteer for something	to work as an unpaid volunteer for a charity, etc.	On Sundays she volunteers as a receptionist at the hospital.

vomit something out	[for something] to spill forth a great deal of something	The volcano vomited the lava out for days. It vomited out hot lava for months.

vomit something up	to bring up something from the stomach by vomiting	The dog vomited the chocolate cake up. Fido vomited up the rabbit.

vote (up)on something/somebody	to make a decision about someone or something by ballot (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The committee decided to vote on it. Are we going to vote on this?

vote against something/somebody	to cast a ballot against someone or something	Are you going to vote against the provision? I plan to vote against David.

vote down	to defeat in a vote	The senate voted down the president's proposed bill.
vote something/somebody down	to defeat someone or something in an election	The community voted the proposal down. They voted down the proposal.

vote for	We voted for the president of the student government.
vote for (somebody)
vote for something/somebody	to cast a ballot in favor of someone or something	Did you vote for Alice? I plan to vote for the tax freeze. Of course, I voted for myself! Wouldn't you?

vote of !

vote somebody into something	to elect someone to office or to membership in a group	The other party finally voted a candidate into office. The people voted in the new officers.
vote something into law	to take a vote on a proposal and make it a law	They voted the proposal into law. If we vote in this proposal, will that solve everything?

vote somebody on(to something)	to elect someone to something, such as a board	Let's vote Christine onto the board. We voted Dave on last term.

vote somebody out of something	to remove one from office by defeating one in an election	They voted her out of office. The electorate voted out a number of incumbents.

vote something through	to get something through a set of procedures by voting in favor of it	They were not able to vote the bill through. They voted through the bill.

vote with !

vouch for	to express confidence in, or guarantee something	You can give the keys to Andy. I can vouch for him.
vouch for (somebody)
vouch for something	to support or back someone or something; to endorse someone or something	I can vouch for Tom. Irene will vouch for my honesty.
vouch for something	to support the truth of something An accountant must vouch for the accuracy of any financial report	I've known him for years and can vouch for his honesty.


wade across something	to walk across something covered by water	Let's wade across the stream at this point. If I wade across it, I will get wet.

wade in	to get quickly and directly involved in something	Don't just wade into things. Stop and think about what you are doing. Just wade in and get started.
wade in	to walk into an area covered by water	The horse waded right into the stream. It waded right in.

wade into something	to become involved in something in a forceful and determined way She wades into a complicated project with great enthusiasm	If there's a problem, my mother is the one to wade in and try to solve it.
wade into something	to struggle through something with difficulty	You mean I have to wade through all these applications? I have to wade through forty term papers in the next two days.
wade into something	to walk with effort through a substance, such as water, mud, garbage, etc.	The soldiers waded through the mud on the way to battle. They waded through the mess to get to where they were going.

wade through something	to move through a large group We waded through a crowd of thousands	The players have to wade through a sea of fans after games.
wade through something	to read detailed or complicated information We don't have enough staff to wade through the data	If you can wade through the ads, there's useful information here about the history of the Internet.

waffle around	to be indecisive; to be wishy-washy about making a decision	Make up your mind. Stop waffling around. Now, don't waffle about. Make up your mind.

wage something against something/somebody	to carry on something against someone or a group	They waged war against the aggressors. Are you still waging your battle against your father?

wager on something/somebody	to bet on someone or something	I wouldn't want to wager on the outcome. I'll wager on Bill, the fastest runner in town.
wager something on something/somebody	to bet a certain amount of money on someone or something	I'll wager twenty bucks on you. I would never wager anything on that horse!

wait (around) (for something/somebody)	to stay somewhere until something happens or someone or something arrives	I'll wait around for you for an hour or so. I don't want to wait around.

wait (something) out	to wait for something bad/negative to pass	My brother waited the storm out in the car.
wait out something	to allow time to go past until something happens or ends	Should we leave now or wait out the storm?
wait somebody out	to allow time to go past until someone does something	I have time and he doesn't, so I'll wait him out until he agrees to sell the business to me. She hoped to wait out her opponent, but that has not worked.
wait something out	to wait until something ends	I will wait the summer out, and if nothing happens, I'll write again. I can wait out the storm inside.

wait (up)on somebody	to pay homage to someone (Stilted)	Do you expect me to wait upon you like a member of some medieval court? She waited on her grown children as if they were gods and goddesses.

wait at something (for something/somebody)	to stay at something or some place until something happens or someone or something arrives	Wait at the door for me. I waited at the office for your call.

wait for	Michael was late for the meeting, and Mary waited for him for thirty minutes.
wait for (somebody/something)

wait on	to serve (in a restaurant)	I want to go back to school. I don't want to wait on tables forever.
wait on somebody	to serve someone	She waited on customers all day at the department store. He sits there in front of the TV and expects me to wait on him!

wait up	to hold up (for someone or something)	to wait for someone or something to catch up. Hey! Don't go so fast. Wait up for me. Hold up! You're going too fast.
wait up	to stay up late waiting for someone to arrive or something to happen	I'll be home late. Don't wait up for me. We waited up for the coming of the new year, and then we went to bed.
wait up (a minute)	Wait for me while I catch up with you! Tom, who was following Mary down the street, said, "Wait up a minute! I need to talk to you." John: Hey, Sally! Wait up! Sally: What's happening?
wait up (on/for) somebody	to wait	Don't worry, they'll wait up for you. = Don't worry they'll wait for you.
wait up (until something)	to delay going to bed until a certain time or until something happens or someone arrives	Are you going to wait up until midnight? We waited up until we heard him come in the back door.

wake (somebody or an animal) up	to cause someone or an animal to awaken	Please don't wake me up until noon. Wake up your brother at noon.

wake (up) from something	to awaken from something, such as a sound sleep, sleep, dreams, etc.	She woke up from a deep sleep. Elaine woke from her dreams with a start.
wake somebody (up) from something	to awaken someone from something, such as a sound sleep, a nap, dreams, etc.	Henry woke Fred up from his dreams. He woke up Fred from a deep sleep.

wake (up) to something	to awaken and face something, such as a problem, sunlight, music, noise, etc.	I love to wake up to soft music. We woke to the smell of freshly brewed coffee.

wake somebody up (to something)	to cause someone to become alert and pay attention (Does not refer to someone actually asleep)	We tried to wake them up to the dangers. Try to wake up the students to their responsibilities.
wake up	to stop sleeping	We have to wake up early for work on Monday. Wake up! We have hit the road.
wake up	to awaken; to stop sleeping; to become alert	Wake up! We have to get on the road. It's time to wake up! I woke up at 7:00 AM this morning.
wake up somebody; wake somebody up
wake up to something	to become aware of something important I wish Dad would wake up to the fact that the car is about to fall apart.

walk around

walk away

walk back

walk in
walk in on (something/somebody)	To enter into a room, etc. and unexpectedly see/discover someone or something	My parents walked in on us kissing.

walk off	They didn't even say good-bye. They just walked off.
walk off with (something)	to steal, get away with	The thieves walked off with a million dollars.

walk on eggs	to proceed very cautiously; to be in a very precarious position (on the image of someone walking on something that offers little support and may collapse at any moment)	I have to remember that I'm walking on eggs when I give this speech. Careful with radical ideas like that. You're walking on thin ice.

walk out
walk out (on)	My sister walked out on Fred because she was fed up with him.

walk over

walk up

wallow (around) in something	to roll around in something	Pigs enjoy wallowing around in mud. They wallow in mud to keep cool.
wallow in something	to experience an abundance of something (on wallow (around) in something)	Roger and Wilma are just wallowing in money. Claire spent the entire day wallowing in self-pity. The villagers are all wallowing in superstition.

waltz around something	to move around or through a place happily or proudly	She waltzed around the room, very pleased with herself. Who is that person waltzing around, trying to look important?

waltz in(to some place)	to step or walk into a place briskly and easily	She waltzed into the room and showed off her ring. Eric waltzed in and said hello.

waltz off	to depart briskly and easily	They said good-bye and waltzed off.
waltz off (with something)	to take something away easily	The thieves waltzed off with a giant screen television in broad daylight. They just picked the thing up and waltzed off. Nobody asked them any questions.

waltz through something	to get through something easily	I waltzed through my comps and started on my research in my second year of grad school. I tried to waltz through my assignment, but it was too hard.

waltz up (to somebody)	to approach someone boldly	He just waltzed up to her and introduced himself. He waltzed up and said hello.

wander about	to stroll or amble around without any purpose evident; to roam around	We just wandered about downtown all morning, looking at the shop windows. It's fun to wander around in a strange town.

wander away (from something/somebody)	to roam away from someone or something	The little boy wandered away from his mother. He wandered off from his sister. The dog wandered off.

wander from something	to stray from something, such as a path, a set of rules, etc.	Please do not wander from the path I have set for you. If you wander from our guidelines, your finished product may not be acceptable.

wangle out of something	to get out of having to do something; to argue or deceive one's way out of a responsibility	Don't try to wangle out of this mess. You must stay and fix the problems you made. Mary managed to wangle out of staying late again.
wangle something from somebody	to obtain, through argument or deception, something from someone	Are you trying to wangle money from me? You can't wangle any money out of me.

want to !

ward off somebody/something	to hold someone or something off; to fight someone or something off	The army was able to ward the attackers off repeatedly. We couldn't ward off the attackers any longer.
ward off somebody/something	to try to keep away someone or something that would hurt you He raised his arm at the elbow to ward off the blow	They have a "No Trespassing" sign out front to ward off anyone who happens by. She often gets headaches, so she carries a bit of fresh ginger wherever she goes to ward them off.

warm somebody up	if something you see or hear warms the cockles of your heart, it makes you feel happy because it shows that people can be good and kind It's an old-fashioned romance that will warm the cockles of your heart.
warm somebody up	not very original; rehashed	I am not interested in reading warmed over news on a computer screen. The lecture sounded sort of warmed over, but it wasn't too dull.
warm somebody up	to cause someone to become more relaxed and friendly It is a good idea to warm up an audience with a few amusing stories before talking about serious things	Do you think meditation might help warm him up before he gets out there to speak?
warm somebody up	to help someone get physically prepared to perform in an athletic event (As if exercising or loosening up someone's muscles)	The referee told the coach to warm his team up so the game could begin. You have to warm up the team before a game. Be sure to warm yourself up before playing.
warm somebody up	to make someone warmer	Stand by the fire and warm yourself up. Warm up the kids and then give them some cookies.
warm somebody up	to prepare an audience for another; more famous; performer	A singer came out to warm us up for the main attraction. This comedian is a superb choice to warm up the audience.
warm somebody/something up	increase the temperature	You can warm your feet up in front of the fireplace.
warm something/somebody up	to make someone or something warmer; to take the chill off someone or something	I put him by the fire to warm him up a little. We warmed up our feet before the fire. Could you warm up my coffee, please?
warm up	to warm up for something	to prepare for some kind of performance or competition. The team had to warm up before the game. They have to warm up.
warm up	to prepare body for exercise	I always warm up by doing sit-ups before I go for a run.
warm up	[for someone] to become more friendly (A warm person is a friendly person)	Todd began to warm up halfway through the conference. After he had worked therefor a while, he began to warm up.
warm up	[for the weather or a person] to become warmer or hotter	I think it is going to warm up next week.
warm up (something)	to briefly exercise as preparation for something She warms her voice up before a concert by singing scales and making funny noises	He always warmed up for about 15 minutes before his morning run.
warm up to (somebody/something)	to begin to like or enjoy someone or something It took a couple of days for us to warm up to each other, but now we're very good friends	Some people have warmed up to the idea of extending the school year, but many still oppose it. Usage notes: sometimes used in the form warm someone up to something (to prepare someone so they will like something): I think you should warm them up to the idea, and not just surprise your parents when they get here.
warm up to something/somebody	to become more fervent and earnest toward someone, something, or a group; to become more responsive and receptive to someone, a group, or something	After we talked, he began to warm up to us a little. I warmed up to the committee as the interview went on.

warm something over	to bring up a matter that was thought to have been settled	Please don't warm that business over again. It is settled and should remain that way. Don't warm over that matter. We have discussed it enough.
warm something over	to reheat food to serve it as leftovers	I'll just warm the rest over for lunch tomorrow. Jane warmed over yesterday's turkey.

warn against	They warn against giving out info.
warn somebody against something/somebody	to advise someone against someone, something, or doing something	We warned them all against going to the region at this time. I warned her against Gerald.

warn of
warn somebody of something	to advise someone that something bad is likely to happen	I wish you had warned us of what was going to happen. Please warn John of the heavy traffic he may run into.

warn somebody about something/somebody	to advise someone about the dangers associated with someone or something	Didn't I warn you about the dangers of going there? I warned you about Alice.
warn somebody about/against

warn somebody away from something/somebody	to advise someone to avoid someone or something	We warned her away from the danger, but she did not heed our warning. Why didn't you warn me away from Roger?

warn somebody off	to advise a person to stay away	We placed a guard outside the door to warn people off until the gas leak could be fixed. The guards warned off everyone in the vicinity.

wash away	to be carried away by water or some other liquid	The bridge washed away in the flood. All the soil washed away and left the rocks exposed.
wash something away	to clean something by scrubbing and flushing away the dirt	Fresh water will wash the seawater away. Let's wash away these muddy footprints.
wash something/somebody away	[for a flood of water] to carry someone or something away	The flood washed the boats away. The high water washed away much of the sand along the shoreline.

wash down something	to drink a liquid to help you swallow something It was a great meal washed down with several glasses of wine	He got two aspirin and washed them down with a glass of water.
wash something down	to clean something by flooding with water, alcohol, etc.	The doctor washed the area down and began to stitch up the wound. She washed down the wound with alcohol to clean it thoroughly. Todd washed the driveway down with water.
wash something down	to use fluid to aid the swallowing of food or medicine	Molly washed the pills down with a gulp of coffee. She washed down the pills with a glass of water.
wash something down something	to get rid of something by flooding it down the sewer, drain, sink, etc.	Wash all the soap suds down the drain and clean the sink, please. Please wash all that stuff down the drain.

wash off (something/somebody)	to be carried off of or away from someone or something by the action of water or another liquid (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The dirt washed off of the floor easily. The label washed off this can, and now I don't know what's in it.
wash something off (of) something/somebody	to clean something off someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	I have to wash this tomato sauce off my jacket before it stains it. I will wash off the tomato stains.
wash something/somebody off	to clean someone or something by washing	She washed the muddy children off with a hose and put their clothes right into the washing machine. Jane washed off the children.

wash of something/somebody !
wash something of something	to get something cleaned of something by washing	I washed my hair of the smell of cigarette smoke I was saturated with in the meeting. I have to get home and wash my trousers of this stain.

wash out	to break down or collapse from exhaustion	The whole play began to wash out during the second act. It was a lost cause by the third. Finally, after a long day, I just washed out. They had to call the paramedics.
wash out	to fail and be removed from something, such as school	I studied all I could, but I still washed out. I don't want to wash out. It's my whole future.
wash out	to have a serious wreck; to wipe out	The little car washed out on the curve. The vehicles have a tendency to wash out when cornering.
wash out	to lose a large amount of money	Fred washed out on that stock deal. Lefty and Willie washed out at the racetrack.
wash out (of something)	to leave a program or activity because you failed to meet its standards I didn't make it through flight school - I washed out	After washing out of the military academy, he joined his father's business.
wash out (something)	to cause an activity or event not to happen because of rain Even the golf tournament was washed out this week	Storms washed the picnic out.
wash out (usually used in the passive form)	To not happen because of rain. Used for sporting events, concerts, etc.	Game 1 was washed out.
wash somebody out	to deplete the strength or vitality of someone	The flu really washed me out. The disease washed out the whole class.
wash somebody out of something	to make it necessary for a person to leave a place or program; to wash someone up (See also wash someone out)	That professor just loves to wash students out of the course. The professor washed out over half the class.
wash something out	to rain on or flood an event so that it must be canceled	Rain washed the game out. The storm washed out the picnic.
wash something out	to wash or erode something out or away	The flood washed the new bushes out. The rains washed out the paving stones.
wash something out	to wash out the inside of something; to wash something made of fabric	I have to wash my socks out tonight. Wash the pitcher out before you put it away. I will wash out my socks tomorrow.
wash something out of something	to clean some kind of dirt from something	You had better wash all the stains out of the clothing before you put it in the dryer. You will want to wash out the dirt.

wash over somebody	[for a powerful feeling] to flood over a person	A feeling of nausea washed over me. A strong feeling of satisfaction washed over me.

wash overboard	[for someone or something] to be carried overboard (off the deck of a ship) by water	Our chairs washed overboard in the storm. I was afraid that the dog would wash overboard, so I took her below.
wash something/somebody overboard	[for water] to flood up and carry someone or something off the deck of a ship into the sea	The high seas washed two of the sailors overboard. The storm washed our chairs overboard.

wash somebody up	to terminate someone in something	This error is going to wash you up as an account executive. That washed me up. Problems like this have washed up quite a few careers.
wash something/somebody up	to clean up someone or something by washing	Please wash the baby up as long as you are changing the diaper. I'll wash up the baby. Sam will wash himself up before dinner.
wash something/somebody up	[for water or the waves] to bring someone or something up onto the shore or beach	Look what the waves washed up! A bottle with a note in it! The waves washed a bottle up.
wash up	to clean your hands She told the children to wash up for dinner.
wash up	to wash, clean oneself	Make sure you wash up before dinner.
wash up (for something)	to clean [oneself] up for something, such as a meal	Please wash up for dinner. Go and wash up!
wash up (something)	to be moved and left in another place by the flow of water Following the sinking of the ferry, a number of bodies washed up on shore	Scattered around the bridge is a lot of debris that washed up.
wash up (something)	to clean the dishes after a meal Who's turn is it to wash up? I started washing up the supper dishes.

waste away	to be damaged or rubbed away by weather Good soil can waste away quickly if it's not cared for properly.
waste away	to gradually become thin and weak He stopped eating and wasted away until he looked like a shadow.
waste away	to wither or dwindle away	Our money just seemed to waste away. As she grew older, she just sort of wasted away.
waste something away	to use something up wastefully; to dissipate something	He wasted all his money away and had to live in poverty. They wasted away everything and regretted it later.

waste money on something/somebody	My brother wasted a lot of money on a very old car. He wasted time and energy on that car, too.
waste something on somebody	to not be noticed or appreciated I wouldn't waste this material on high school students - they don't have the background to understand it	Usage notes: often used when speaking of something of special quality: The difference between a really fine French wine and one that's not as good is wasted on me.
waste something on something/somebody	to throw something away on someone or something	Please don't waste any sweet potatoes on me. I don't like them. I can't waste any more money on this car.

waste no time in doing something	to immediately begin an activity Caroline wasted no time in tackling her new job	Will came right from the airport to the office and lost no time getting back to work.

waste of space	something that is completely without value	The wrecked furniture in here is just a waste of space. This broken-down car is a waste of space!

watch out	to be careful	Watch out! There's a car coming.
watch out (for)	to be careful	There's a school at the end of this block. Watch out for children crossing the street.
watch out (for)	Watch out for the snakes in the bushes.

watch over	Can you watch over the kids while we're gone.

water down	To add water to something (usually used when someone adds water to alcohol, etc.)	I'm sure they water down the beer/This beer tastes watered down.

water under !

wave at somebody	to move an upraised hand in such a way as to signal recognition to someone	The people in the boat waved at us. They waved to us after we waved at them.

wave somebody back (from something)	to motion someone to move back from something	The police officer waved the curious onlookers back from the scene of the crime. The students started to go onstage, but the teacher waved them back.

wave something around	to raise something up and move it around so that everyone can see it	When Ruth found the money, she waved it around so everyone could see it. She kept waving around the dollar she found in the street.

wave something/somebody aside	to make a signal with the hand for someone or something to move aside	The police officer waved us aside and would not let us turn into our street. The officer waved aside the spectators. She waved all the traffic aside.

wave something/somebody away (from something/somebody)	to make a signal with the hand for someone or something to move away from someone or something	The officer waved us away from the intersection where we were about to turn left. The guard waved away the traffic from the intersection.

wave something/somebody off	to make a signal with the hand for someone or something to remain at a distance	There was someone standing in front of the bridge, waving everyone off. The bridge must have collapsed. He waved off all the traffic.

wave something/somebody on	to make a signal with the hand for someone or something to move on or keep moving	The traffic cop waved us on. The cop waved on the hordes of pedestrians.

wean somebody (away) from something	to force someone or an animal to break a habit (on the notion of ending the dependence of a young creature on milk alone)	It was almost impossible to wean her from her high spending habits. We couldn't wean away the dog from its mother.

wear in	to make comfortable by usage, wearing, etc. Often used to talk about shoes	I've been trying to wear in these new sneakers.

wear off	to fade away	Most of my make-up wore off before I got to the party.
wear off	to stop working; to fade	The numbness will wear off in two hours.

wear on	to continue (gradually)	The protests tailed off as the night wore on.

wear out	After weeks of learning for this stupid test, I'm worn out.
wear out	to become unusable	Julie wore out her shoes sightseeeing.
wear out	to become very tired	At the end of the day Julie was worn out.
wear out	to make someone very tired	My daily routine really wears me out.
wear out	to wear so much that something becomes too old/ damaged to wear	I wore out my shoes in about six months.

weary of something/somebody	to become tired of or bored with someone or something	I am beginning to weary of you. Isn't it time you were going? We soon wearied of chicken twice a week.

weary somebody with something	to tire or bore someone with something	He wearied her with his constant requests. Please don't weary me with your complaints.

weasel out (of something)	to escape responsibility for something He used all kinds of excuses to weasel out of paying his bills.
weasel out (of something)	to evade or avoid a job or responsibility	Don't try to weasel out of your responsibility! You can't weasel out! You have to do it.
weasel out (of something)	to squeeze one's way out of something	Somehow, the child managed to weasel out of the hole she was stuck in. The mouse tried to weasel out.
weasel out (of something)	words that you use to avoid answering a question or to deceive someone She was too experienced an interviewer to be taken in by the weasel words of crafty politicians.

weave around	to move about, changing directions at random	The drunken driver wove around all over the road. He was weaving around everywhere.

weave in and out (of something)	to move, drive, or walk in and out of something, such as traffic, a line, etc.	The car was weaving in and out of traffic dangerously. The deer ran rapidly through the forest, weaving in and out of the trees.

weave something from something	to make a fabric from some type of fiber	They weave this cloth from a fine plant fiber. This cloth is woven from silk threads.
weave something from something	to make a story or explanation out of a small amount of information	You have woven the entire tale from something you heard me say to Ruth. Your explanation has been woven from supposition.

weave something into something	to form fibers into a fabric	They could weave the threads into simple cloth with a primitive loom. We will weave this wool into a rug.
weave something into something	to turn separate episodes into a story	Skillfully, the writer wove the elements into a clever story. Memories from her childhood were woven into a series of short stories.

weave through something	to move through something by turning and dodging	The car wove through traffic, almost hitting a number of other cars. We wove through the jungle vines, trying to avoid touching the poisonous ones.

wed somebody to somebody	to marry someone to someone else	Her parents wedded her to a young prince when she was only twelve. They cannot wed her to anyone if she has already married someone of her own choosing.
wed somebody to something	to join someone firmly to a concept (on wed someone to someone)	Don't try to wed me to your way of doing things. I have my own way. Don't wed yourself to that idea.

wed(ded) to somebody	married to someone	The couple will have been wed to each other for fifty years next June. Anne is wed to one of my cousins.

wedge something/somebody (in) between people or things	to work someone or something into a tiny space between people or things	The usher wedged us in between two enormously fat people, and we were all very uncomfortable. They wedged in the package between Jane and the wall. We had to wedge Timmy between Jed and the side of the car.

weed out	to remove less desirable parts/elements of something	He weeded out all the rotten berries.
weed out somebody/something	to remove someone or something not wanted The school needs to weed out wasteful spending	You need to be able to weed people out if they can't do a good job.
weed out somebody/something	to remove someone or something unwanted or undesirable from a group or collection (on removing weeds from the soil)	We had to weed the less productive workers out one by one. The auditions were held to weed out the actors with the least ability. I'm going through my books to weed out those that I don't need anymore.

weep about something/somebody	to cry about someone or something; to mourn someone or something	She was weeping about her grandfather, who had passed away in the night. There is no use weeping about spilled milk.

weep for (somebody or an animal)	to cry out of sorrow for someone or an animal	She wept for her puppy when it was terribly sick. Please don't weep for me after I'm gone.

weigh (up)on somebody	to burden or worry someone (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The problems at the office were beginning to weigh upon Mr. Franklin. My problems began to weigh on me.
weigh on somebody	to cause someone anxiety or worry Her daughter's illness definitely weighed on her mind.
weigh on something	to push something down High energy prices weigh on a company's profits by increasing production costs	Usage notes: usually used in connection with financial markets or prices.

weigh against something/somebody	to count against someone or something; [for some fact] to work against someone or something	I hope my many absences do not weigh against me on the final grade. This will weigh against you.

weigh down something	to slow the operation or growth of an organization The company was weighed down with debt	Health-care costs weigh the economy down.
weigh somebody down	to be very heavy for someone to carry She checked her bags because she knew they would weigh her down	The number of keys he carried would have weighed down a band of sturdy men.
weigh somebody down	to be very heavy This suitcase weighs a ton!
weigh somebody down	to make someone feel tired and weak He was weighed down by worries about money	Old, sad memories weighed her down.
weigh somebody down	[for a thought] to worry or depress someone	All these problems really weigh me down. Financial problems have been weighing down our entire family.
weigh something/somebody down	to burden someone or something	The heavy burden weighed the poor donkey down. The load of bricks weighed down the truck.

weigh in	to offer an opinion in a discussion or argument Mr	Pierce weighed in with a warning that many companies would not be able to meet the deadline. One angry woman weighed in to remind us that a lot of what we'd read was not true.
weigh in (at something)	to present oneself at a certain weight (Usually said of boxers)	The fighter weighed in at over two hundred pounds. The contenders weighed in yesterday.
weigh in at something	to be measured as being a particular weight tip the scales at something Both fighters weighed in at 162 pounds	The baby weighed in at 6 pounds, 9 ounces.

weigh something against something	to ponder something by balancing it against something	I weighed going to town against staying here and sleeping and I decided to stay here. When I weigh your suggestion against my own ideas, I realize that I must follow my own conscience.

weigh something out	to weigh something as it is distributed	The merchant weighed the cuts of meat out for each of the waiting women. They weighed out the grain care-fully.

weigh something up	to find out the weight of something	I can't tell you how much this will cost until I weigh it up. Liz weighed up the meat and jotted down the price.

weight something against something/somebody	to bias something against someone or something	The prosecutor tried to weight the evidence against the defendant. The police weighted the case against the accused company.

weight something/somebody down (with something)	to place a heavy weight in or on someone or something; to press down or hold down someone or something with a heavy weight	The inquisitors weighted the accused down with stones, but he still refused to say what they wanted. Karen weighted down the papers with an ornamental paperweight.

weird out	to become emotionally disturbed or unnerved; to flip out	The day was just gross. I thought I would weird out at noon. I weirded out at the news of Frankie's death.

Welcome aboard	Welcome to employment at our company (See also on board; Invariably said in greeting to a new employee)	Glad to meet you. Welcome aboard.

welcome somebody into something	to greet one as one is ushered into something or some place	The Franklins welcomed us into their home. Please welcome in our new members.

welcome somebody to something	to greet someone who has come into something or some place	I am very pleased to welcome you to Adamsville! They welcomed us to the party and showed us where to put our coats and hats.
welcome to do something	free to do something; allowed to do something	The audience is welcome to ask questions at the end of the speech. You are welcome to help yourself to anything in the kitchen.

welcome somebody with something	to present something to someone as a sign of greeting (See also receive someone with open arms)	The natives welcomed us with garlands of flowers. I welcomed the visitors with gifts and good wishes.

welcome something/somebody back	to greet the return of someone or something	We are delighted to welcome you back to our house. The students welcomed back the teacher who had been ill.

weld (somebody and somebody else) together	to bind people together (on weld something and something else together)	Their experiences in the war welded Tom and Sam together for life. They were welded together by their common goals.
weld (something and something else) together	to attach things to one another by welding	The worker welded the ends of the rods together. See if you can weld these plates together.

welsh on somebody	to renege on a bet or an agreement made with someone (Also spelled welch)	You had better not welsh on me if you know what is good for you. Max welshed on the mob boss and made a lot of trouble for himself.
welsh on something (with somebody)	to renege on a bet or agreement made with someone (Also spelled welch)	Max welshed on his bet with Lefty. That was not a wise thing to do. It is not wise to welsh on a bet.

wet behind !

wet something/somebody down	to put water onto someone or something	Mother wet the children down with a hose while she was washing the car. Karen wet down the children with the hose. We wet the new concrete down to help it cure in all the heat.

whack something/somebody up	to damage someone or something	Bob got mad at Greg and whacked him up. Clara whacked up her car yesterday.

wheedle somebody into something	to get someone to agree to do something by begging or flattery	She is always trying to wheedle us into coming for a visit. You can't wheedle me into doing that!

wheedle something away from somebody	to get something away from someone by begging or flattery	The crooks wheedled the old lady's money away from her. Tim wheedled a few dollars out of his uncle.

wheeze something out	to say something, while wheezing; to say something, using a wheeze for a voice (As if one is out of breath)	He was out of breath from running and was only able to wheeze a few words out. Liz wheezed out a quick hello.

whine about something/somebody	to whimper or complain about someone or something	Please don't whine about Sally. She is sorry she couldn't come to your party, but it's not the end of the world. The dog is whining about its hurt paw.

whine something out	to say something in a whine; to say something, using a whine for a voice	She whined her complaint out so everyone could hear it. Jake whined out his usual complaints.

whip (something written) off to somebody	to write and send off a letter to someone quickly	After I got her letter, I whipped an answer off to her the same afternoon. Liz whipped off a letter to her grandmother.

whip around	to reverse suddenly (As with the tip of a whip)	The rope suddenly whipped around and struck me in the face. A branch whipped around and tore my shirt. to turn around very quickly and suddenly. John whipped around when he heard the noise. Claire whipped around to face her opponent.
whip something/somebody around	to cause someone or something to reverse direction quickly	The roller coaster whipped around the riders, right and left, until they were almost sick. The sharp turn whipped me around, but I wasn't hurt.

whip back (on somebody)	[for something] to snap back and strike someone	The branch whipped back and struck Jill in the leg. It whipped back and slapped my side.

whip into something	to go quickly into something or some place	They whipped into the parking space before I could get there. I whipped into the store to pick up a few things.
whip somebody into !
whip somebody into doing something	to beat someone into doing something	The cruel captain whipped his men into going on with the journey. You can't whip me into betraying my friends.
whip something into something	to beat one soft ingredient into another	Whip the butter into the egg and make a smooth paste. First, you must whip the egg whites into the cream.

whip out	to remove something (very quickly)	We were talking about my favorite book, when he whipped it out of his backpack.
whip something out	to jerk something out [of some place]	Liz whipped a pencil out of her pocket. She whipped out a pencil and signed the contract.
whip something out	to complete making or working on something quickly	I think I can whip one out for you very quickly. The factory whips out twenty of these every minute.

whip somebody up	to excite or stir up someone	Well, you've certainly whipped them up with that speech. Harry whipped up the crowd with a few good jokes.
whip something up	to prepare, create, or put something together	I haven't written my report yet, but I'll whip one up before the deadline. I will whip up the most beautiful arrangement you have ever seen.
whip up	to quickly make, create something to eat	He whipped up some sandwiches.
whip up something	to cause something to increase in strength or violence Huge waves, whipped up by the unusually strong winds, pounded the beaches	The press whipped up public opinion to the point where we were in danger of rioting in the streets. The crowd was pushing forward, and some people tried to whip things up even further.
whip up something	to quickly prepare something to eat	They got up at 3:30, Pete whipped up breakfast, and they left for the airport by 4:00

whip something away (from somebody)	to jerk something away from someone suddenly	The mugger whipped Sally's purse away from her and ran. The thief whipped away the purse.

whip something off	to remove something, such as an item of clothing, quickly	He whipped the coat off and dived into the water. I whipped off my cap.
whip something off	to do or create something quickly	If you need another receipt, I can whip one off in a jiffy. She whipped off another set of earrings for the tourist.

whip something over (to somebody)	to send or give something to someone with great speed	I will whip this letter over to Mr. Franklin right away. Sam whipped the package over to Alice immediately.

whip something/somebody on	to force someone or something to continue by whipping or beating	The rider whipped his horse on, faster and faster. The stage coach driver whipped on the team of horses.

whirl something/somebody around	to turn someone or something around quickly	I grabbed him by the shoulder and whirled him around to face me. I whirled around the book display and found what I wanted.

whisk (somebody or an animal) off	to brush [something] off someone or an animal	The barber quickly whisked him off and collected the fee. The barber whisked off the customer.
whisk something off (of) something/somebody	to brush something off someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	The barber whisked the loose hairs off of the customer. The barber whisked off the loose hairs.
whisk something/somebody off (to something)	to move someone or something to something or some place rapidly	The government agents whisked the witness off to a secret place. They whisked off the suspect to a holding cell.

whisk somebody around	to move someone around rapidly from place to place	I didn't get much chance to see the city. They just whisked me around. We whisked around the visitor from place to place.

whisk something/somebody away	to move someone or something out of the way rapidly	The firemen came and whisked the students away to a safe place. The agents whisked away a number of people.

whisper about something/somebody	to speak about someone or something in a quiet, breathy voice, as if telling secrets	I hope they aren't whispering about me. Everyone is whispering about the incident in the lunchroom.

whisper something around	to spread secrets or gossip around	Now, don't whisper this around, but Sam is going to run away from home. If you whisper this around, you will spoil the surprise.

whistle at something/somebody	to indicate approval or disapproval of someone or something by whistling	The men whistled at the beautiful woman who walked by. Everyone whistled at the enormous roast of beef the cook's assistant carried in.

whistle for something/somebody	to summon someone or something by whistling	I stood on the corner and whistled for a cab, but they all ignored me. I whistled for the dog, but it did not appear.

whittle somebody down to size	to reduce someone's ego; to cause someone to have better, more respectful behavior (on whittle something down (to size))	After a few days at camp, the counselors had whittled young Walter down to size. It took some doing, but they whittled him down to size.
whittle something down	to cut or carve at something	He just sat there, whittling at a chunk of wood. I am not carving anything, I am just whittling at some wood.
whittle something down	to gradually reduce or destroy something By halftime our team's lead had been whittled down to only two points	College is so expensive, after two years, my college fund has been whittled away to almost nothing. Usage notes: also used in the form whittle away at something: Over the past year, we've whittled away at our debts.
whittle something down (to size)	to cut or diminish something to a more appropriate size or to the proper size	I whittled the peg down to size and it fit in the hole perfectly. You are going to have to whittle down expenses.

whittle something away	to cut or carve something away	The carver whittled the wood away until only a small figure was left. He whittled away the wood.

whittle something out of something	to carve something out of something	The young man whittled a small boat out of wood. Can you whittle an elephant out of this chunk of wood?

whiz (right) through something	to speed through a place	One car after another whizzed right through the little town. We whizzed through the kitchen, stopping just long enough for a glass of iced tea.
whiz (right) through something	to work one's way through something quickly; She whizzed right through the test with no trouble	Jane whizzed through her interview and got the job.

whiz past something/somebody	to move or travel past someone or something at a high speed	The train whizzed past one little town after another. I whizzed past Chuck because I did not recognize him.

whoop it up	to celebrate or enjoy yourself in a noisy and enthusiastic way The proposal's supporters whooped it up like cheerleaders when the governor said he supported it	I won't be whooping it up this week - I have too much to do.
whoop it up	to celebrate, especially with cheers and whoops	It was a very noisy party. Everyone was whooping it up well past midnight. The campaign workers whooped it up for their candidate. I can't get out there and whoop it up for something I don't believe in.

wide awake	to completely awake and thinking clearly My mother came into my bedroom at 7 a;m	and found me wide awake.
wide awake	to completely aware	You need to be wide awake to the danger of leaving your belongings unattended.
wide awake	to wake up while experiencing something	Mary awoke to the smell of freshly brewed coffee. I love to awaken to music.

wig out	to become intoxicated	One more drink and Wally will wig out. This guy has wigged out. Get him out of here.

wiggle out of something	to manage to get out of a job, the blame for something, or a responsibility	Don't try to wiggle out of your job! You are to blame and don't try to wiggle out of it!
wiggle out of something	to get out of something or some place; to squirm out of something or some place	The kitten was able to wiggle out of the cage in which it had been put. The squirrel wiggled out of the trap we caught it in.

wiggle/wriggle out (of something)	To avoid doing something through excuses, explanations, etc.	You won't be able to wiggle out of going this time.

wimp out (of something)	to chicken out (of something); to get out of something difficult, inconvenient, or dangerous, leaving others to carry the burden	Come on! Don't wimp out now that there's all this work to be done. Ted wimped out on us.

win (out) (over something/somebody)	to defeat someone or something	I hope our team wins out over you guys. Good teamwork always wins out.
win out	to succeed after great effort In the end, greed won out over doing the right thing.

win (something) down !

win at something	to triumph at some competition	Will I ever be able to win at golf? She always wins at poker.
win something at something	to win a prize in some sort of competition	I won this silly doll at the ring-toss game. Did you win anything at the fair?

win by !

win somebody away (from something/somebody)	to convince someone to dissociate from someone or something	We were not able to win Christine away from her strange ideas. We tried to win her away but failed.

win somebody over (to something)	to succeed in making someone favorable to something	I hope I can win them all over to our side. I won over the mayor to our side.
win somebody/something over	to succeed in changing opinion The senator made a stirring speech but failed to win over enough votes to pass his bill	The argument she used to win them over was not about who was right and who was wrong.

win something/somebody back (from something/somebody)	to regain someone or something from someone or something	I hope to win the money I lost back from the other poker players. We were not able to win Sally back from the cult. We won back everything. We won back Sally.

win through something	to succeed by a certain method or procedure	Winning is no good if you have to win through dishonesty. Sally won through her own hard work.

wince at something	to shrink back because of something, such as pain	She winced at the pain but did not cry out. After he had just winced at the pain for a while, he finally screamed.

wind down	to relax; to spend time in a relaxing way	I just need to wind down for a couple of hours.

wind something (up) (into something)	to coil something up into a ball or similar shape	Tony wound all the string up into a ball. Wind up the string into a ball. Please wind this into a ball.
wind up	to finish; to end up	If he doesn't get his act together, he is going to wind up in jail.

wink at somebody	to close one eye at a person as a sign of friendliness or flirtation	She winked at him and he was shocked. I hope she winks at me again.

wink something away	to blink the eyes to try to clear them of tears, dirt, etc.	He looked up at me and tried to wink away his tears, but he was just too upset. Jane winked away her tears.

wipe (somebody) out	to completely get rid of, eliminate	Hunters wiped out all the deer in this region.
wipe (somebody) out	to exhaust (someone), to make (someone) really out	That hike really wiped me out!
wipe out	to crash	I wiped out on the curve. The car wiped out on the curve.
wipe out	to fail badly	The test was terrible! I'm sure I wiped out. It was a bad test. I wiped out for sure.
wipe out	to fall off or away from something, such as a bicycle, skates, a surfboard, a skateboard, etc.	I wiped out and skinned my knee. If I wipe out again, my mother says I'm through.
wipe out	to have a very serious accident Jim wiped out on the ice and broke his leg	He was driving crazily and wiped out on a curve. Usage notes: usually someone wipes out because they are going too fast.
wipe out (somebody/something)	to cause someone to lose or spend all their money My neighbor was totally wiped out by the last recession	A night out with Paul and Michelle just about wiped us out.
wipe out (somebody/something)	to destroy someone or something We were ordered to wipe out a small enemy force hiding in the village	The floods wiped whole villages out.
wipe somebody out	Sl to exhaust or debilitate someone	The long walk wiped me out. The trip wiped out the hikers.
wipe somebody out	to kill someone	Max intended to wipe Lefty's gang out. Lefty wiped out Max's gang.
wipe somebody out	to ruin someone financially	The loss of my job wiped us out. The storm ruined the corn crop and wiped out everyone in the county.
wipe something out	to use up all of something	I wiped the cookies out - ;not all at once, of course. Who wiped out the strawberry preserves?

wipe off	to clean (board, table)	The teacher asked Lee to wipe off the board. Don't use your sleeve to wipe the ice cream off of your hand.
wipe something (off) (on something)	to remove something by wiping it on something else	Don't wipe your feet off on the carpet. Don't wipe off your feet on the carpet, wipe them on the mat.
wipe something off	to remove a smile, grin, silly look, etc., from one's face	Wipe that silly grin off your face, private! Wipe that smile off!
wipe something off	to remove something (from something else) by wiping or rubbing	There is mud on your shirt. Please wipe it off. I must wipe off the ketchup from my shirt.
wipe something off	to remove something, such as food or dirt, from one's own face	Wipe that peanut butter off your face!
wipe something off	to tidy or clean something by wiping (something else) off	Please wipe the table off. There's water on it. Wipe off your shirt. There's ketchup on it.
wipe something/somebody (off) (with something)	to clean someone or something by wiping with something	Tony wiped the baby off with a soft cloth. Jane wiped off the counter with a rag. Tom fell in the mud and asked Ralph to wipe him off.
wipe something/somebody off	to clean something off someone or something by wiping	She wiped the baby off and put clean clothes on him. Please wipe off your shoes. John fell in the mud and Sam wiped him off.
wipe something/somebody off the face of the earth	to demolish every trace of someone or something	A great storm will come and wipe all the people off the face of the earth. The wind blew my old barn off the face of the earth! Nothing was left.

wipe something away	to clean or mop something away	Wipe all this mud away and scrub the floor clean. Jake wiped away the mud.

wipe something down	to rub or mop something down	Wipe the counter down and keep it clean! Don will wipe down the counter.

wipe something up	to clean something dirty by wiping	The floor was sticky so I wiped it up. Please wipe up the countertop.
wipe something up	to clean something up by wiping	Please wipe that spilled milk up. Jim wiped up the spill.

wire ahead (for something)	to send a telegram to one's destination, requesting something to be available upon one's arrival	I wired ahead for a room. I hope that they still have one by the time we get to the hotel. We wired ahead for reservations.

wire something back to somebody	to send something, such as a reply or money, back to someone by telegram	Please wire your answer back to me by tomorrow. The reply wasn't wired back in time.

wire something in	to send something into a central point by telegram	I can't mail my story to my editor in time, so I will have to wire it in. I've got to wire in this story.

wire something together	to bind the pieces of something together with wire; to bind things together with wire	I wired the car's exhaust pipe together, hoping to get a few more miles out of it. I will wire it together to keep it from dragging on the roadway.

wire something up	to attach something to a high place with wire	We wired the satellite dish up to the side of the chimney. We wired up the antenna to the chimney.
wire something up	to repair or reattach something with wire, especially something electrical	I will wire this light fixture up and it will work like new. As soon as I wire up this again, it will work very well.

wire something/somebody for something	to send a telegram to someone or something requesting something	I wired my father for some money. I'm sure he'll send it, officer. Sarah wired the supplier for a replacement part.

wise somebody up (about something/somebody)	to instruct someone about something; to give someone important information	Let me wise you up about the way we do things around here. I will do what I can to wise her up.
wise up (to something/somebody)	to (finally) begin to understand someone or something; to realize and accept the facts about someone or something (Also as a command)	Sally finally wised up to Richard. Come on, Sally! Wise up!

wish for something/somebody	to wish to have someone or something	He wished for a new car. She spent most of her life wishing for Prince Charming, who would come along and sweep her off her feet. She still wishes for escape.

wish something/somebody (off) on somebody	to foist someone or something off on someone else	I would never wish my uncle off on you, even for an hour. I wouldn't wish off my cousin Roger on anyone. I wouldn't wish this matter on you.

wish something/somebody away	to wish that someone or something would go away	You can't just wish him away. You'll have to ask him to leave! Don't try to wish away the difficulties of your life.

withdraw from something	to end one's association with someone or something	I decided to withdraw from all my professional organizations. I had to withdraw from the association because the dues had become too high.
withdraw from something	to depart from something physically	I withdrew from the smoky room and ran to the open window to get some air. I withdrew from the unpleasant-looking cafe and looked for something more to my liking.

withdraw into oneself	to become introverted; to concern oneself with one's inner thoughts	After a few years of being ignored, she withdrew into herself. I have to struggle to keep from withdrawing into myself.
withdraw into something	to pull back into something	The turtle withdrew into its shell. The mouse withdrew into its hole.

withdraw somebody from something	to remove someone from an organization or a nomination	The committee withdrew John from nomination and put up someone else. I withdrew my son from kindergarten.
withdraw somebody from something	to pull someone out of something physically	She withdrew the child from the water just in time. I had to withdraw my child from the kindergarten room. He was having such a good time, he wouldn't leave on his own.
withdraw something from something/somebody	to pull something out of someone or something	She withdrew the book from the stack. I withdrew the splinter from Dave carefully.

withdraw something into something	to pull something back into something	The turtle withdrew its head into its shell. It then withdrew its feet into the shell also.

wither away	to shrivel up; to shrink up	Soon, the wart withered away. Many of our roses withered away in the hot sun.

wither on !

withhold something from (somebody or an animal)	to hold something back or in reserve from someone or an animal	We withheld some of the food from the guests. I had to withhold some food from the dog so there would be enough for tomorrow.

witness for something/somebody	to serve as a witness for some person or some deed	They could find no one to witness to something witness for the accused person. The police found someone to witness for the hour of the crime.

wobble about	to rock, quiver, or flounder around	The little baby wobbled about and finally fell. The vase wobbled around a little and fell over.

wolf something down	to eat something very rapidly and in very large pieces (As a wolf might eat)	Don't wolf your food down! Liz would never wolf down her food.

wonder about something/somebody	to be curious or in doubt about someone or something	I wonder about Carl and what he is up to. Sometimes I wonder about life on other planets. Jenny's performance record made me wonder about her chances for success.

wonder at
wonder at something/somebody	to be amazed at or in awe of someone or something (Stilted)	We all wondered at Lee and the way he kept his spirits up. The people wondered at the bright light that lit up the sky.

woo somebody away (from something/somebody)	to lure someone away from someone or something; to seduce someone away from someone or something	The manager of the new bank wooed all the tellers away from the old bank. They wooed away all the experienced people.

work for	MichaelВ works forВ a computer company.
work for (company/something/somebody)
work for something/somebody
work for/toward something

work in	to include, interpose	The writer worked in a couple of extra passages.

work off	to lose (usually by exercise)	I need to work off a few pounds.
work off !

work on (something)

work out	to be successful	Our plan worked out fine. Everything will work out in the end. She needs to work out more often.
work out	to do physical exercise	I work out twice a week at the gym club.work out
work out	to exercise	I work out at the gym three times a week.
work out	to find a solution or calculate something	It's expensive but I haven't worked out the exact cost yet.
work out	to be successful	I'm glad your new consulting business is working out.
work out	to exercise (usually with weights)	Martin works out three times a week.
work out something; work something out
work something out	make a calculation	We have to work out the total cost before we buy the house.

work over	They really worked him over.

work through !

work up	To develop (due to work, effort, etc.)	He worked up quite a sweat after running for 2 hours.

worry about something/somebody	to fret or be anxious about the welfare of someone or something	Mary worries about her grades. Michael worries about money. She worried about getting lost. Please don't worry about me. I'll be all right. Don't worry about the bill. I'll pay it.
worry oneself about something/somebody	to allow oneself to fret or become anxious about someone or something	Please don't worry yourself about me. I'll be all right. There is no need for Karen to worry herself about this.

worry out of something !
worry something out of somebody	to annoy some information out of someone	They finally worried the correct number out of me. You can't worry the information out of her. It will require force.

worry over something/somebody	to fret or be anxious about someone or something	She worried over dinner, but it came out all right. Jerry is worried over his daughter, Alice.

worship somebody as something	to revere or honor one as if one were something divine or special	He worships her as a goddess. She worships her father as a god.

wrangle (with somebody) (over something/somebody)	to bicker or argue with someone over who will end up with someone or something	I don't want to wrangle with Kelly over the contract. I see no need to wrangle over Dolly.

wrap around something/somebody	to enclose or fold about someone or something	The snake wrapped around the helpless man and it was soon all over. The flames wrapped around the barn and swallowed it up.

wrap something around somebody	to fold or drape something onto someone	He wrapped a towel around himself and went to answer the telephone. She wrapped a blanket around her little boy to keep him warm.
wrap something/somebody around something	to bend or coil someone or something around something	I'll wrap you around that lamppost unless you cooperate! Don wrapped the rope around the tree and tied it tight.

wrap something up	to complete work on something; to bring something to an end	I will wrap the job up this morning. I'll call you when I finish. I can wrap up this little project in a week.
wrap something/somebody (up) (with something)	to enclose or enfold someone or something, using something	Try to wrap the baby up with something warmer. We will have to wrap up the baby with extra blankets tonight.
wrap up	to finish; to bring to a conclusion	OK, let's wrap up for today. Wrap up the presents quickly.
wrap up something	to complete or stop doing something	The president will wrap up his visit to China on Thursday. It's late and I have to get home, so let's wrap it up and finish tomorrow.
wrap up something; wrap something up

wreak something (up)on something/somebody	to cause damage, havoc, or destruction to someone or something (Upon is formal and less commonly used than on)	The storm wreaked destruction upon the little village. It wreaked much havoc on us.

wreathe (itself) around something/somebody	[for something] to form itself into a wreath or circle around someone or something	The smoke wreathed around the smokers' heads, almost obliterating sight of them. The smoke wreathed around the green tree near the fire.
wreathe something around something/somebody	to form something into a wreath around someone or something	The smoke wreathed a ring around the old man holding a pipe. The cloud wreathed a huge halo around the tip of the mountain.

wreathe something/somebody in something	to enclose someone or something in a wreath or a wreath-shaped area	The trees wreathed them in a lovely frame. It made a beautiful photograph. The vines wreathed the campers in a gentle bower.

wrench something from somebody	to grab or twist something out of someone's grasp	The policeman wrenched the gun from Lefty's hand and called for his partner. Max wrenched the wallet from Jed's hand and fled with it.

wrench something off (of) something/somebody	to yank or twist something off someone or something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	He wrenched the shoes off the sleeping man and ran away. He wrenched off the catsup bottle cap.

wrest something off (of) something	to struggle to get something off something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	Somehow he wrested the hubcap off the wheel. He wrested off the hubcap.

wrest something/somebody (away) from something/somebody	to struggle to get someone or something from the grip of someone or something	The kidnappers wrested the baby from his mother and ran away with him. The policeman wrested the gun away from Lefty.

wrestle something from somebody	to get something away from someone after a physical struggle	Wally wrestled the gun away from Max and threw it out the window. I could not wrestle my wallet from the thief.

wrestle something into something	to struggle with something large to get it into something or some place	She wrestled the packages into the backseat of the car. I wrestled the suitcases into the rack over my seat.

wrestle with somebody	to contend with someone in a physical wrestling match	You are too big to wrestle with him! I want to wrestle with someone my own size.
wrestle with something	to grapple or struggle with some large animal	The man wrestled with the tiger for a while but was seriously mauled in a short time. Sam liked to wrestle with the family dog.
wrestle with something	to struggle with a difficult problem; to struggle with a moral decision	We wrestled with the problem and finally decided to go ahead. Let me wrestle with this matter for a while longer.
wrestle with something	to struggle with something large to move it about	He wrestled with the piano and finally got it to move. The two men were wrestling with the heavy trunk for nearly ten minutes, trying to get it up the stairs.
wrestle with something	to work hard to do something difficult The new governor will be wrestling with the state's disastrous financial condition	These are the big issues that society will have to wrestle with. More than 200 firefighters wrestled with the blaze for more than two hours.

wriggle in(to something)	to wiggle and squeeze into something or some place	You will never be able to wriggle into that swimming suit. I can just wriggle in!

wriggle out	to get out of having to do something; to evade a responsibility	Don't try to wriggle out of this. I won't let you wriggle out this time.
wriggle out	to wiggle and squeeze out of something or some place	She wriggled out of her tight skirt and changed into something more comfortable. The skirt was so tight, she had to wriggle out. She couldn't pull it off.

wring something from something	to remove liquid from something by squeezing or twisting	She wrung the water from the cloth and wiped up the rest of the spill. Alice wrung the water out of the washcloth.

wring something out	to squeeze or twist something dry of liquid	He wrung the rag out and wiped up more of the spilled milk. Liz wrung out the rag and wiped up more of the spilled milk.
wring something out of somebody	to persuade someone to give you what you want She is a very original comedian and can wring laughs out of any audience	The trick in fundraising is to wring money out of people who don't want to give it away.
wring something out of somebody	to show that you are very sad or anxious about a situation but do nothing to improve it It's not enough for us to stand by and wring our hands - we've got to take action.

wrinkle something up	to make something get wrinkles and creases	I love the way you wrinkle your nose up. Don't wrinkle up your jacket.
wrinkle up	[for something] to draw up in wrinkles; [for something] to become wrinkled	His nose wrinkled up as he smelled the burning pie. The cloth wrinkled up in the intense heat.

write (something) down	To write something	Write down your name. = Write your name.
write down
write down to somebody	to write to someone condescendingly	You should never write down to your audience if you want to be convincing. I have to write down to them, because they are very young.
write somebody down as something	to list someone's name, noting something	I'll write you down as a contributor. Can I write you down as a charter member?

write (something) off	To dismiss (something)	He wrote the incident off as unimportant.
write off (to somebody) (for something)	to send a written request for something away to someone	I wrote off to my parents for some money, but I think they are ignoring me. I wrote off for money. I need money so I wrote off to my parents.
write off something	to accept that a debt will not be paid Last year the bank wrote off $17 million in bad loans	I'll probably never see the money I loaned my brother, so I guess I'll write it off.
write off something	to charge something as a business expense	You can write off your cell phone and all the costs of service for it. I'm giving the furniture to a local church and writing it off as a donation.
write off something	to decide that something will not be successful For a long time, both political parties have written off the Greens	Since they behave oddly, people tend to write them off as weirdos, but many members of the group are important business people.

write (up)on something/somebody	to use someone [such as some one's back] or something as a flat base to support something that is being written upon	I have to sign this check. Here, let me write on you. Do you mind if I write on your desk? I just need to sign this.
write (up)on something/somebody	to write about someone or something (Upon is very formal here and much less commonly used than on)	I had to write an essay, so I wrote on my uncle. What are you going to write upon?
write (up)on something/somebody	to write on someone's skin or some thing (Upon is formal and much less commonly used than on)	Don't write on Billy. After all, he's your brother. Who wrote on this page of the book?

write about something/somebody	to write a narrative or description of someone or something	I wanted to write about wild canaries, but there is not much to say. Sally writes about famous people.
write against something/somebody	to oppose someone or something in writing	John writes against the current administration too harshly. Almost everyone enjoys writing against the CIA.

write away	to write a lot; to continue writing	There he was, writing away, not paying attention to anything else. I spent the entire afternoon writing away, having a fine, productive time.
write away for	I wrote away for a book on poetry.
write away for something	to send for something in writing, from a distant place	I wrote away for a book on the rivers of the world. You will have to write away for another copy of the instruction manual.

write back to somebody	to write a letter to someone in return for a letter received from someone	I wrote back to her at once, but I have heard no more from her. Please write back to me when you have a chance.

write for something	to produce writing for a particular kind of publication	I write for science magazines. Sam writes for the local newspaper.
write for something	to write and request something	I wrote for clarification but received none. Julie wrote for another copy of the instruction book.
write somebody for something	to send a written request to someone for something	Henry wrote Harry for a firm quote, but Harry never responded. Did you write me for permission?

write in (something)	to send a letter or electronic message to an organization or business A lot of customers write in their complaints and get nothing from the company in response	Write in today and let us know what you think.
write in (to something) (for something)	to send a written request to something for something in particular	Please write in for a detailed recipe of all the dishes on today's program. I am going to write in for a clarification.
write somebody in (on something)	to write the name of someone in a special place on a ballot, indicating a vote for the person (Done when the person's name is not already printed on the ballot)	Please write my name in on the ballot. I wrote in your name on the ballot.

write of something/somebody	to write about the general topic of someone or something	He wrote of the beauty of nature and the way we are destroying it. She wrote of Henry, her ancient house cat.

write on and on	to write too much; to write endlessly	You tend to write on and on. Try to focus on one point and leave it at that. I think you write on and on just to fill up space.

write somebody/something off	to decide that someone or something is not important Most critics wrote him off as a minor artist until he received that huge grant	Everyone had pretty much written off the team after they lost their tournament last week. Americans no longer dream of their children becoming president - in fact, many write it off as not worth the effort.
write something off	to absorb a debt or a loss in accounting	The bill couldn't be collected, so we had to write it off. The bill was too large, and we couldn't write off the amount. We decided to sue.
write something off (on one's taxes)	to deduct something from one's income taxes	Can I write this off on my income taxes? I'll write off this trip on my taxes. Oh, yes! Write it off!
write something/somebody off	to drop someone or something from consideration	The manager wrote Tom off for a promotion. I wrote off that piece of swampy land as worthless. It can't be used for anything.
write something/somebody off	to give up on someone or something as a dead loss, waste of time, hopeless case, etc.	Don't write me off as a has-been. We almost wrote off the investment as a dead loss.
write something/somebody off	to give up on turning someone or something into something	I had to write Jill off as a future executive. The company wrote off the electric automobile as a dependable means of transportation. He would never work out. We wrote him off.
write something/somebody off	to take a charge against one's taxes	Can I write this off as a deduction, or is it a dead loss? Can I write off this expense as a tax deduction?

write something against something/somebody	to write something in opposition to someone or something	I wrote an article against her proposal, but they refused to print it. Sarah wrote an essay against the president.

write something back to somebody	to write a letter answering someone	I wrote an answer back to her the same day that I received the letter. Will you please write something back to Julie? She complains that you are ignoring her. I wrote a letter back to Harry, explaining what had happened.

write something down	to make a note of something; to record something in writing	Please write this down. Please write down what I tell you.

write something into something	to include a specific statement or provision in a document, such as a contract or agreement	I want you to write a stronger security clause into my contract. I will write in a stronger clause.
write something into something	to write information into something	I wrote her telephone number into my notebook. I wrote in her number. I took out my notebook and wrote it in.

write something out	to put thoughts into writing, rather than keeping them in memory	Let me write it out. Then I won't forget it. Karen wrote out her objections.
write something out	to spell or write a number or an abbreviation	Don't just write "7," write it out. Please write out all abbreviations, such as Doctor for Dr.

write something to somebody	to compose a letter or e-mail and send it to someone	Sam wrote a letter to his father. Did you write that memo to Mark yet?
write something to somebody	to send specific information to someone in writing	I wrote the facts to John, and he thanked me for the information. They wrote all the details to me, and I filed them.
write something to something	to write something that is supplementary to something else	Molly wrote an epilogue to her story covering the time up till now. I will write the introduction to the book this afternoon.
write to/about

write something up	to prepare a bill, order, or statement	Please write the order up and send me a copy. As soon as I finish writing up your check, I'll bring you some more coffee.
write something/somebody up	to write an article about someone or something	A reporter wrote me up for the Sunday paper. I wrote up a local business and sent the story to a magazine, but they didn't buy the story.
write up	To prepare a report	He wrote up a business proposal when he was applying for loan.
write up something	to tell about something by writing it We had such a wonderful trip, I wanted to write it up in my diary before I forgot a lot of details	Usage notes: often said about creating a finished document: We have to write up the lab report for this chemistry experiment.

write something/somebody about something	to send an inquiry or statement to someone in writing about someone or something	I will write her about what you just told me. Sarah wrote the company about the faulty merchandise.

writhe under something	to suffer under a mental burden	I writhed under her constant verbal assault and finally left the room. Why do I have to writhe under her insults?
writhe under something	to squirm with pain from being beaten with something	The sailor writhed under the sting of the lash. The child writhed under the pain of his spanking.

writhe with something	and writhe in something [for someone or an animal] to squirm because of something, such as pain	Carl writhed with pain and began to cry. He was writhing in pain when the paramedics arrived.
writhe with something	[for something] to support or contain something that is writhing	The pit was writhing with snakes and other horrid things. The floor of the basement was writhing in spiders and crawly things.


yack on	talk continuously, especially if it is an annoying way	He YACKED ON for an hour.

yak on	to keep talking (too much)	He kept yakking on for hours about how great things were going for him.

yammer on	talk continuously, especially if it is an annoying way	She YAMMERED ON for ages.

yank at something/somebody	to pull or tug at someone or something	Please don't yank at the drapery cord. Stop yanking at me!

yank somebody around	to harass someone; to give someone a hard time	Listen, I don't mean to yank you around all the time, but we have to have the drawings by Monday. Please stop yanking me around.
yank something/somebody around	to pull or jerk someone or something around	Don't yank Billy around so. You'll hurt him! Please don't yank the chairs around. Move them carefully.

yank something off	to pull or jerk off something, such as a piece of clothing	She yanked her jacket off. She yanked off her jacket and threw it on the chair.
yank something/somebody off (of) something	to jerk someone or something off something (Of is usually retained before pronouns)	She yanked the coffeepot off the counter and ran upstairs. She yanked off the box lid.

yank something up	to pull or jerk something up	He yanked his pants up. He yanked up his pants and threw on his shirt.

yank something/somebody apart	to pull, tear, or rip someone or something to pieces	Please don't yank the book apart! He yanked apart the book! He threatened to yank his opponent apart.
yank something/somebody apart	to separate people or things	The teacher yanked them apart. The teacher yanked apart the fighting boys.


yank something/somebody away (from something/somebody)	to jerk someone or something away from someone or something	He yanked his hand away from the fire. Please yank away that rug from the fire before it gets burned.

yank something/somebody into something	to jerk or pull someone or something into something	Mary yanked Sally into the car and sped off. She yanked in the anchor rope and we rowed away.

yank something/somebody out of something	to pull or jerk someone or something out of something	Sam yanked the turnips out of the ground one by one. He yanked out the best of the young carrots from the rich soil.

yap about something/somebody	to talk casually about someone or something; to gossip or complain about someone or something	Stop yapping about Molly. Claire is always yapping about her salary.

yap at somebody	[for a small dog] to bark at someone or something	The dog yapped at the cat in great frustration. I am tired of that dog yapping at me all the time!
yap at somebody	[for someone] to scold or bark at someone shrilly	Don't yap at me. I didn't do it. Bob yapped at Bill for something he didn't do.

yearn for something/somebody	to long for someone or something; to desire someone or something strongly	Sam sat alone in his room, yearning for Mary. Mary yearned for a big bowl of high-butterfat ice cream.

yell at something/somebody	to shout at someone or something, usually in anger	Please don't yell at me. There is no point in yelling at a cat.

yell offf !

yell out	The pain caused me to yell out.
yell something out (at something/somebody)	to shout something loudly at someone or something	The dictator yelled curses out at the troops. The director yelled out his disgust at the cast of the play.

yell something at something/somebody	to shout something at someone or something, usually in anger	Please don't yell those things at me. He stood on the porch, yelling curses at a dog on his lawn.

yield something to somebody	to give the right-of-way to someone	You must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians. You failed to yield the right-of-way to the oncoming car. to give up something to someone. The army yielded the territory to the invading army. We yielded the territory to the government.
yield to	to surrender	I tried hard to resist, but in the end I YIELDED TO temptation and ate it all.
yield to somebody	to give in to someone	She found it hard to yield to her husband in an argument. I will yield to no one.
yield to somebody	to let someone go ahead; to give someone the right-of-way	Please yield to the next speaker. She yielded to the next speaker.

yield something/somebody (over) (to something/somebody)	to give up someone or something to someone or something (The over is typically used where the phrase is synonymous with hand over)	You must yield Tom over to his mother. Will you yield the right-of-way to the other driver, or not? Please yield the right-of-way to me.

yield something/somebody up (to somebody)	to give someone or something up to someone	He had to yield his daughter up to Claire. The judge required that Tom yield up his daughter to his ex-wife. Finally, he yielded up the money.

yoke around !

zero in (on something)	a situation where two people compete and if one of them wins anything, exactly the same must be lost by the other Radio has become a zero-sum game, with stations gaining listeners only at each other's expense.
zero in (on something)	absolutely no toleration of even the smallest infraction of a rule	Because of the zero tolerance rule, the kindergartner was expelled from school because his mother accidentally left a table knife in his lunch box.
zero in (on something)	to direct your attention to one particular thing My son's teacher was able to zero in and deal with his problems	She needs to really zero in on what's important instead of going off on a lot of tangents.
zero in (on something/somebody)	to aim directly at someone or something	The television camera zeroed in on the little boy scratching his head. The commercial zeroed in on the glass of cola. Mary is very good about zeroing in on the most important and helpful ideas.
zero in on	to direct or focus attention on	The police have ZEROED IN ON the man they believe to be responsible for the murder.
zero in on	to head for, move towards	The hurricane is ZEROING IN ON Florida.
zero in on	to focus on; to pinpoint	The authorities zeroed in the fugitive's location.

zero out	to cut off funding for a project	The debt was ZEROED OUT by the department.
zero out	to reduce to zero, cancel, and remove	The entry was ZEROED OUT of the database.

zip along	to move along very fast	The motorcycle zipped along nicely. Let's zip along and get there on time.

zip around	to move quickly	We ZIPPED AROUND the supermarket to get the shopping done.
zip around	to move around	Peter zipped around town after school.

zip by	to pass quickly	The motorbike ZIPPED BY the cars stuck in the traffic jam.

zip past something/somebody	to run or move past someone or something very rapidly	The deer zipped past the hunter, who stood there, startled. The cars zipped past the intersection.

zip something on	to put on a piece of clothing and zip it up	She zipped her jumper on and headed toward the door. Zip on your jacket and let's go.

zip something up	to close a garment by zipping a zipper closed	You had better zip your jacket up. You had better zip up your jacket.
zip something up	to close a zipper	You should zip that zipper up. You should zip up that zipper.
zip something up	to close one's mouth	Zip your mouth up, Fred! Zip up your mouth, Fred.
zip up
zip up	to keep quiet	He was being stupid in the meeting, so we told him to ZIP UP. I had better zip my jacket up.

zone in	to pay attention after not doing so	I was bored at first but then ZONED IN when things started getting more interesting.
zone in on	to pay attention after not doing so	I ZONED IN ON what they were saying when they started gossiping.
zone in on (something/somebody)	To focus (on something); To start paying attention (to something)	The owl zoned in on the squirrel.

zone out	to dissociate yourself from a situation	I put some ambient music on and ZONED OUT.
zone out	to not pay attention	She ZONED OUT during the lecture because it was so boring.
zone out	the area where one thing ends and another begins, especially when it is not clear exactly where or when this happens (often + between) She'd been unconscious ever since she fell, trapped in the twilight zone between life and death.
zone out	to not notice or stop being interested in what is happening around you When I'm dancing I zone out and feel like I'm the only one in the room	I just flew in from Europe this morning, so don't get upset if I just zone out in the middle of the meeting.
zone out	to stop paying attention. To space out	He zoned out during the lecture.

zone something as something	to create a particular legally defined area within a governmental or other local area	They zoned this area as a shopping district. The city council zoned the vacant lot as a park.

zone something for something	to specify what can be built or what can be done within a particular legally defined area within a governmental area	Did the council zone this area for business? They zoned this area for residences.

zonk out	to fall asleep	I ZONKED OUT during the film and missed most of it.

zoom across (something)	to run or move across something very fast	The missile zoomed across the sky. We looked at the sky just as a comet zoomed across.

zoom along to	to move along very rapidly	The bus zoomed along rapidly all night long. Let's zoom along while the road is clear.

zoom in	to pan in (on someone or something) to move in to a close-up picture of someone or something, using a zoom lens or a similar lens	The camera zoomed in on the love scene. The camera operator panned in slowly.
zoom in	to focus more closely	The camera ZOOMED IN to show people's faces.
zoom in	to concentrate on a matter related to someone or a problem	Let's zoom in on this matter of debt. She zoomed in and dealt quickly with the problem at hand.
zoom in	to fly or move rapidly at someone or something	The hawk zoomed in on the sparrow. The angry bees zoomed in on Jane and stung her. When the door opened, the cat zoomed in.
zoom in	to view at a closer range (usually with a camera lense, etc.)	Try to zoom in so we can get a better look.
zoom in (on something)	to drive or pull up to a place	A car zoomed up, and seven kids got out. Let's zoom up to the door and see if she's home.
zoom in (on something)	to view something more closely The software lets you zoom in so you can check the details of any part of the picture.
zoom in on	to focus more closely	The camera ZOOMED IN ON his face.

zoom off	to go somewhere quickly	He rushed out of the building and ZOOMED OFF in his car.
zoom off	to leave in a hurry	Sorry, I have to zoom off. We will zoom off soon.

zoom out	to focus less closely	The camera ZOOMED OUT to show the entire crowd.
zoom out	to go to pan out.
zoom out	to lose control	I nearly zoomed out when I got the news. Fred zoomed out and started screaming at John.

zoom over something/somebody	to fly over someone or something at high speed	The plane zoomed over the treetops. A small bird zoomed over the hikers, shrieking wildly.

zoom past something/somebody	to run or move past someone or something very rapidly	The runners zoomed past the spectators. Our train zoomed past town after town.

zoom something/somebody (over) to somebody	to send something to someone very fast	Please use my car to zoom Molly over to the bank. Would you zoom this package to the downtown office?

zoom through	to pass through a town or some other location very fast	Don't just zoom through these little towns. Stop and explore one or two. We didn't stop. We just zoomed through.
zoom through	to work one's way through something very rapidly	She zoomed through the reading assignment and went on to something else. Jeff can open a book and zoom through in record time.
